actors let's talk about saving some time
and saving some money by printing our
headshots at home come on actually I'm
not going anywhere I'm staying right
here so come on figuratively
yeah what's up guys it's Kurt from small
market after calm and today we're going
to be talking about how to print our own
headshots at home it is super easy and
you definitely don't have to be like a
tech genius or anything like that to do
it and it saves money which I think most
of us can get on board with so let's
talk about first the things that we need
one a photo printer two photo paper
three a digital version of your headshot
on your computer and four let your puppy
optional though alright that's it
so let's go through each item one by one
and talk about the details of what we
need specifically
okay so before you start thinking about
going out and buying a new printer first
ask yourself this do I currently own a
printer if you do check to see if it can
print photos most of us might actually
have a photo printer but never even knew
it because we never use that function a
lot of us only use the printer to print
documents because all of our photos are
on Facebook and Instagram so check to
see first because if you bought a
printer within the last five years or so
there's a good chance against it can
print photos so check if your current
printer can't print photos or if you
currently don't have a printer then you
will have to look into buying one now
the good news is you don't have to spend
hundreds of dollars on a photo printer
the printer that I use is a Canon and it
prints awesome quality headshots and it
only cost me about 60 bucks
now that model is no longer in
production but I'm sure you can find
something very similar made by Canon or
HP or Epson or something like that for
well under $100 now if you go to the
blog post that I wrote accompanying this
video I'll have links on there to some
inexpensive photo printer options
the number one thing to remember when
buying photo paper for headshots is that
the paper needs to be 8 by 10 that's 8
inches wide by 10 inches tall now this
is a different size than normal printer
paper which is eight-and-a-half by 11
this is super important because 8 by 10
is the industry standard size for a
headshot you don't want to be the actor
that goes into an audition with an 8 and
a half by 11 headshot because that is
going to make you stand out like a sore
thumb in a really bad way so make sure
to buy 8 by 10 photo paper as for the
finish of the paper you have the choice
between matte photo paper and glossy
photo paper now matte photo paper is
going to give you a flatter look glossy
photo paper is going to give you a
shinier look now this is really your
preference I've never heard of casting
director or talent agent say that they
strongly prefer one finish over the
other so just pick whichever one you
like best I personally prefer matte
photo paper because I can print on both
sides of it I can print my headshot on
one side and then flip it over and print
my resume directly on the back the
glossy photo paper a lot of times only
has one printable side I like printing
on both sides because it saves the
hassle of trimming the resume and then
stapling it or taping it on the back
plus I think it looks more professional
having it printed on both sides again if
you go to the blog post after watching
this I'll provide some links to some
photo paper options as well
okay now that we have a photo printer
and photo paper we are just about ready
to print our first headshot but before
we do that we first have to make sure
that the image file on the computer is
the proper dimensions remember when we
said earlier that the photo paper needs
to be 8 by 10 well the image on the
computer needs to be that same aspect
ratio or else when we print we're
cutting off half our heads you
definitely don't want to do that so how
do we check that well one way to do it
is to use a little bit of math and crop
the photo based on some calculations but
I'm sure most of you don't want to
relive algebra class so I'm going to
show you an easier way a much easier way
that helps you crop your headshots to
the exact right dimensions every single
time it's a website called crop alikom
here's not worse so the first thing we
do is go to our head shot and drag that
image on to crop alikom let it load and
once it finishes loading it gives you
this little crop window what we do now
is click over to manual and then down
here I don't know if you can read it but
it says aspect ratio under aspect ratio
we're going to change this to 8 by 10 to
rule Teresa 1 type an 8 and then 10 so
now this window is an 8 by 10 aspect
ratio and we can drag it to as big as we
want so if we drag it all the way now we
have an 8 by 10 crop we can actually
even crop it if you want to put
different part of the photos so this
makes it very easy to crop any image
that you have into a perfect headshot
size so we're actually going to drag it
all the way out and then all we do is
download this crop we'll save it to the
same folder and now it's done then we'll
go back to the folder and we have this
crop image and this is the one that we
are going to print all right we are so
close I can smell it now the last thing
we need to do is to load the printer
with the 8 by 10 photo paper now
depending on the printer you may need to
remove the
printer paper first do the size
difference just remember to put it back
afterwards and now we are finally ready
to print the headshot in the print
dialog of the computer select 8 by 10 as
the paper size and matte or glossy photo
paper as the paper type and now click
print that's it pretty easy right if you
found this video helpful please spread
the love and share it with all of your
acting friends so that they can learn
from it as well
until next time break legs and I hope to
see you on set
