what should you wear when you're walking
into the audition room of a film and
television audition or for a self taped
audition should you dress as the
character or should you just dress as
yourself to answer these questions I
want to share with you my own personal
experiences as well as the advice of two
casting directors
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry
hey if you haven't already you
definitely want to subscribe to this
channel to get more videos on acting
auditioning and career advice every
single week as a working actor in the
industry my goal is to share with you
everything that I know and everything
that I've learned to help you jump-start
your career in fact I want to give you
my free 10 step audition preparation
process that's helping me book many
movies and television shows
I call it my audition cheat sheet and
you can download it right now at the
acting Career Center website that link
is in the description below today's
topic is what to wear to an audition
specifically for movies and television
shows whether it's an in-person audition
and a self taped audition what should
you wear how much should you dress like
the character that you're auditioning
for let me first tell you what I've been
told for most of my career and then I'll
share with you a couple tips from two
casting directors the advice that I've
heard most often throughout my career is
that you should dress to suggest the
character meaning you should definitely
wear something that's similar to what
your character would be wearing but you
shouldn't go overboard with it for
example let's say you're auditioning for
a baseball player or a softball player
it would be a good idea to wear
something athletic to your audition but
it would be probably going overboard to
wear the full Jersey with the hat and
the glove and everything similarly let's
say you're auditioning for a soldier it
would be a good idea to wear like an
army green t-shirt to suggest the
character but it's probably going
overboard if you went to your audition
in full combat fatigues so dressed to
suggest the character but don't go
overboard with a full blonde costume the
reason behind this is that if you go to
an audition with a full costume one it
could look like that you're trying too
hard and that you're using your costume
to overcompensate for potentially bad
and to the costume itself could be a
distraction it could end up taking
attention away from your performance so
hopefully that makes sense that's the
advice that you're gonna hear from
probably around 75% of the people in the
industry and that's how I approach what
to wear for my auditions so now that
we've heard that let me tell you what a
couple casting directors have to say
about what to wear to an audition the
first casting director is Sharon B Ali
out of Los Angeles
Sharon wrote a book called how to
audition on camera this is an excellent
book and I highly recommend it I'll put
a link to it in the description below in
the book Sharon has a chapter called
should I dress for the character she
writes every teacher and every coach
will give you a different answer to this
question but my advice is to suggest the
character in the way that feels most
comfortable to you
if dressing for the role helps you get
into character and slide into another
persona then by all means do so so she
also says to suggest the character but
her explanation of it is quite different
she says to dress in whatever way that
makes you most comfortable and works
best for you and if that means to put on
a costume then by all means do it a lot
of people will not recommend this
approach but this is coming from a very
well-known and well-respected casting
director in the industry I've actually
seen this approach work for some actors
I remember a few years ago
I was at a callback for a movie and the
role was for a police officer I
distinctly remember there was an actress
at the callback who was wearing a
full-blown police officer's uniform with
a badge and everything and she was the
only actor in the room who had the full
uniform all the other actors myself
included were wearing like a blue or a
black button-down shirt but guess who
booked the role that girl with the full
uniform now I'm not saying that the
uniform is what booked her the role but
it certainly didn't
lose her the role that worked for her
but it's not gonna work for everyone and
even though I had just personally
witnessed it working for someone else
I still don't go to my auditions dressed
in full character because it's just not
something that I think would personally
work for me and there is another big
advantage to not dressing in full
costume for an audition and I first
heard this from another casting director
recently I was on a zoom call with
Jordan Brown who's a casting director
here in Atlanta
I asked Jordan what her thoughts were on
actors dressing in full costume for
auditions and she mentioned a potential
drawback that most actors don't really
take into consideration and that is if
you go into an audition dressed in full
costume for a specific character you
make it harder for the producers to
consider you for other roles in the
project understand that whenever you
audition you're never just auditioning
for that one part it is very common for
them to say you know what you may not be
right for this particular role but we
can tell you're a good actor so can you
read for this other role as well that's
very common and this happened to me many
times or even better they could say hey
you know what we don't think you're
right for this role but there's this
other role in this project that you're
perfect for and we'd like to book you
for it and boom you get offered a role
without ever auditioning for it this
exact scenario happened to me in 2017
with a movie venom I auditioned for a
role and I didn't end up getting it two
weeks later they called my agent and
they offered me a different role in the
movie that I never auditioned for they
booked me off of my audition for that
other character so when Jordan Brown
says that dressing in full costume could
potentially take you out of
consideration for other rules she means
that let's say you go into an audition
and you are dressed in full police
officer uniform they could be casting
other roles that day they could be lets
say casting for a teacher role that day
and they could have been considering
you for the role of the teacher but
since you're dressed a hundred percent
as a police officer it's harder for them
to visualize you in the role of the
teacher right so let's say instead you
were wearing a button-down shirt and
dress pants well those clothes can
suggest both a police officer and a
teacher and many other potential roles
look I'm not telling you to never dress
in full costume for an audition hey like
I said I've seen it work for some people
and Sharon B Ali the casting director
out of Los Angeles said you do whatever
works best for you but I just want you
to understand the potential drawbacks of
doing so all right that's my take on
what to wear to an audition if you have
any questions leave them in the comments
below and let me know which approach you
agree with more if you like this video
give me a thumbs up remember to
subscribe to this channel and don't
forget to download my free audition
cheat sheet until next time keep
practicing keep learning and I look
forward to seeing you on set one day
