all right we've all heard it's normal
put 20% down when you're buying a house
well in this video I show you why that
is effectively a myth and why you don't
need anything close to 20% when you're
buying a house here in the United States
the average first-time homebuyer only
puts down 6% and when you're looking at
all homebuyers in general they only put
down an average of 11% truth be told the
average American just doesn't have
enough money to put down 20% it's either
that or they choose not to between
percent down they choose to invest their
money somewhere else
so why 20% why is that the magic number
well that's the number that lenders use
to determine whether or not you have to
pay mortgage insurance mortgage
insurance is basically a policy that
pays lenders and banks for losses due to
loan defaults it's a way for them to
mitigate their risks and these risks get
higher and higher the lower that you're
putting down as a down payment so let's
say that for a $500,000 home you are
putting down $100,000 that equates to
20% down payment this leaves you with a
mortgage that is considered 80% LTV loan
to value that is your borrowing 80% of
the value of the home now let's say for
that same $500,000 home you're putting
just $50,000 down that equates to a down
payment of 10% and in terms of the LTV
that's gonna be 90% so be lower the down
payments the higher the LTV the higher
the LTV the more risky that loan is
because they're letting you borrow a
bigger and more significant portion of
the home's value definitely sucks in
tons of parts of the country because
these houses are so expensive and it's
just so hard to come up with 20% down
and lots of people there for our like
thing I can't afford to buy a home
because I can't get that 20% right like
I don't want to pay mortgage insurance
however don't listen to that don't think
that you need 20
down in order to buy a home because
there are so many loan programs out
there that let you buy homes it much
less than 20% down and like I said
before most people aren't putting down
20% so don't feel like you are one of
those few people that can't afford to
put 20% down it's so common here in the
United States so now I'm gonna overview
some of the greates
blone programs out there that let you
put down under 20% the first one is the
FHA loan this is a loan that's issued by
a fh8 approved lender and it's insured
by the Federal Housing Administration
FHA loans let you pay as low as 3.5%
down and that's why it's so popular
among the first-time homebuyers it
really lets you get into a home with not
a lot saved up now what I like to tell
people looking for loans especially FHA
loans is be lower your credit score the
more likely that an FHA loan is your
best bet this is because if you want to
put down 3.5% for an FHA loan you only
need a credit score of at least 580 and
let's say you want to put down 10% using
an FHA loan then your credit score only
needs to be about 500 those are
considered pretty low scores so that's
why it's such a good first-time
homebuyer loan program because you know
lots of first-time homebuyers might not
have a good of a score as someone that's
already purchased a home
the downside is that there is an upfront
mortgage insurance premium of 1.75
percent of the loan amount generally
this is rolled into the value of the
loan so let's say you are getting a
$100,000 loan just to keep it simple
your upfront mortgage insurance premium
is gonna be one thousand seven hundred
and fifty dollars and that can get
rolled into the one hundred thousand
dollar loan
so your total loan now becomes one
hundred one thousand and seven hundred
fifty dollars now in addition to this
upfront mortgage insurance premium
there's also an annual mortgage
insurance premium this is going to range
from about
Oh point four five percent to one point
zero five percent of the loan amount if
your credit score is really high you'll
be paying on the lower end of that
spectrum and if your credit score is a
bit lower then you'll be paying on the
higher end of that spectrum in awesome
perk about the FHA loan is that they
allow you to use gift funds from
relatives or family members so the next
really popular alone that people can get
and put down less than twenty percent is
actually the conventional loan and many
people actually don't know that they can
put under twenty percent down for a
conventional loan but it's actually
extremely extremely common so with a
conventional loan you can actually put
as low as 3% down conventional loans are
backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and
these two agencies they solely exist to
help banks and lenders give out
mortgages they actually don't offer any
type of insurance for these mortgage
lenders so that leaves this insurance up
to the private mortgage insurance
companies out there so whenever you're
putting less than 20% down using a
conventional loan they're going to
require that you pay PMI this private
mortgage insurance just like the
mortgage insurance premium that is
associated with the FHA loan this PMI
payment is to offset the risk that these
lenders are taking on by lending you
over 80% of the loan to value the amount
of PMI you pay is also based on your
credit score so the higher credit score
let's say you're above a 740 which puts
you in the pretty much highest bracket
for loans that's going to give you about
a PMI payment of 0.45 and then say
you're all the way at the bottom at a
620 which is the minimum credit score
that's needed for a conventional loan in
that case your PMI payment is going to
be much higher at about 2.25 percent so
you can really see why it's so critical
to have the highest credit score you can
have when you're trying to buy a house
and you are shopping loans getting
interest rates
well the higher your credit score the
lower your interest rates going to be
and the lower your credit score the
higher your interest payments are going
to be the difference between 0.55 and
2.25 percent is huge so let's say that
you're buying a place and you're
borrowing $500,000 let's say that you
have the best trip score available so
your PMI payment is only 0.55 percent
that's gonna mean that you're paying
about two hundred thirty dollars per
month for PMI that's actually not too
bad right like that's only about twenty
seven hundred dollars per year which in
the grand scheme of things is not bad at
all especially when you're comparing the
rates of appreciation in most parts of
the world like if that's high and you're
waiting to buy a house just so that you
can build up that downpayment it's not
going to make any sense because you
could just be paying a few thousand
dollars more per year right now rather
than waiting out having house prices
increase drastically and being able to
afford homes less and less and less one
great thing about the conventional loan
is that there's no upfront mortgage
insurance payment so there's not that
1.75 percent upfront mortgage insurance
premium that FHA loans have so that's
why I recommend for most people with a
high credit score's with high incomes
they actually just spring for a
conventional loan another benefit of
conventional loans is that you can get
rid of your PMI payments once you reach
80% LTV or lower once you get to that
point once you've built up 20% equity in
the home you can do an appraisal through
your lender and if it shows that you do
have 20% equity they all take off that
PMI payment instantly so no you won't
ever have PMI for the entire third year
or 15-year course of the mortgage once
you reach 20% equity you can just get
rid of that pretty easily and another
really great loan that lets you put down
less than 20% is the VA loan and the VA
loan is reserved for veterans and
servicemembers and there
families this is a true zero percent
down loan that you can get and the rates
are pretty low which makes it one of the
best if not best loan programs out there
it's really a way of the government
saying hey we appreciate your service
let us help you buy a house for as low a
down payment as possible
there is no PMI payments no mortgage
insurance for a VA loan but the thing
with the VA loans is that there is a
funding fee of two point one five
percent and that is going to be rolled
into the overall loan so basically that
means you don't need to pay it up front
it's just roll into your loan and you
paid off monthly throughout the course
of the mortgage these loans are issued
by VA approved lenders and they're
backed by the US Department of Veteran
in fact I'm actually helping a family
buy a home with a VA loan right now it's
just really crazy to see that they can
get into a home worth about seven
hundred thousand dollars with zero
percent down so this VA loan greatly
streamlined their ability to buy a home
being how young they are because they
didn't have to spend many many years
building up that downpayment as long as
their income satisfies the debt to
income ratios as long as they're making
enough to comfortably afford that
mortgage payments they can jump into a
home purchase without anything down so
there are tons of other loans out there
I only named a few but these are some of
the most popular ways to get into a home
for under 20% down if you think that you
can't get into a house if you can't buy
a house right now just because you don't
have that so-called 20% magic number
down payment then I really like urge you
guys to take a look at some of these
other loan programs that are extremely
popular there's no shame to not put down
20% if you're waiting on a home purchase
just because you don't have that 20%
down I think that's a mistake
for the most part look at it this way
say you're living in a in a place where
the appreciation on
which is about 3% per year if you're
trying to buy a $500,000 home that means
that next year this home is gonna be
worth five hundred fifteen thousand
dollars so fifteen thousand dollars more
are you going to want to pay that
fifteen thousand dollars more in a year
or are you gonna rather prefer paying
maybe a few thousand dollars of mortgage
insurance per year right now in order to
get into the house right now
no like financially it makes more sense
in many scenarios to buy the home with
less than 20% down rather than waiting
and seeing the prices of homes increase
you gotta think of it this way mortgage
insurance isn't a punishment for not
having 20% down it's not a punishment
towards you the borrower instead it's a
tool that lets these lenders lend out
money to people that don't have that 20%
it just lessens the risk and allows them
to be able to loan money to people that
don't have that full 20% down and like
20% is just like some random number they
came up with there's no like backing or
anything there's no like actual reason
why it's 20% they were just like hey 20%
is pretty good amount of equity in a
home so we're gonna use that as the
magic number and it's a win for the
consumer too because it allows them to
buy a home much sooner than if they were
to put 20% down if there were no loan
programs out there that accepted
mortgage insurance then you know so many
people in the United States we just
wouldn't be able to afford a house the
housing market collapse you know I don't
even know what would happen yeah I just
want to let you guys know that you don't
need 20% down to buy a house all these
loan programs out there exist
specifically to get people like you and
I who don't have the 20% down needed to
buy a house all right that's all I have
for today thanks for watching this video
you guys if you learn something from it
I would love it if you hit that like
button and also subscribe to my channel
if you want to see more videos about
real estate about entrepreneurship
finance I make videos about this every
week and post them to my channel alright
I'll see you guys in the next video
