what is up you guys so I'm standing
outside the house in Los Angeles that I
just sold we were on the market for like
seven or eight days and we got six
offers and it sold way over asking price
3% over asking price so I just wanted to
you know show you guys the house show
kind of how we sold it so fast and you
know give me an inside peek at what the
house is like so the first thing he
knows about this house is this gigantic
double door it's so frickin tall like
like a bet they spent so much money on
this thing open up these and voila so
we're now in the grand entryway it's
just really nice in general and check
out the living room right here and then
as you walk from the living room here
you have the dining space the dining
table with a nice view of it's probably
it's super blown out though so you
probably can't see anything but I'll run
some clips through so you can see what
it looks like this is the big kitchen
this is a main selling point of the
house people loved this kitchen because
it just like overlooks the entire
backyard and just feels super spacious
so we have these granite countertops
this gigantic oversized center island
with this kitchen a built-in stove lots
of stainless steel appliances all really
new condition so it just looks really
good in here and then from the kitchen
you walk into the sort of like family
room and this place is a four bedroom
house so there's one bedroom downstairs
with one bathroom and then upstairs
there are three bedrooms including one
master suite all right so we're gonna
have upstairs to the second floor
alright so up here you have three
bedrooms this is the first one it's a
pretty good size and each room has a
walk-in closet which is super nice tons
of storage yeah the walls are kind of
oddly shaped here but I think it works
pretty well
it looks looks like a nice dream and
there's tons of natural sunlight right
here they have a little spot where you
can connect the TV and just have it
right here without any ugly cool
all right second bedroom right here
really nice bedroom I mean it's not the
biggest but there's this like gigantic
window right here with these plantation
shutters overlooks the backyard really
nice view and of course the walk-in
closet right there and then right here
we have the master suite this is the
master walk-in closet pretty good-sized
tons of windows overlooking the backyard
and then here we got the master bathroom
so they have two things isn't her sake
same quartz countertops these are
actually like one of the highest
countertops I've ever seen in the
bathroom but it actually makes a lot of
sense like lots of the countertops that
I see they're super low and you have to
like bend down and brush your teeth or
whatever these it's a lot better anyways
here they're more sliding closets so a
lot more storage and then this is the
toilet so if you want to see that but
shower pulling a shower really pretty
and yeah I love the stonework here
alright so the coolest part about this
house in my opinion is the backyard and
this is where the owners spent the
majority of the money in the renovations
because before they moved in or sorry
but when they bought this house in 2016
like this entire backyard was just grass
like none of this existed which is
pretty crazy to think about so they
added a new overhang right here with
Doulton recessed lights all this
concrete right here is brand new this is
a very new saltwater custom pool with
like LED lights inside so at night you
can change the colors to whatever color
you want
check out those like little tiki hut BBQ
area it's pretty cool and then they also
built this gas fireplace right here so
we put this home on the market
the very end of May so I think like May
29th or something like that
it's 2716 square feet on a 17,000 400
square foot lot so it's a pretty big
place and you know it was built pretty
long ago 50 years ago so the bones are
old but the owners of this house just a
ton of work a ton of like custom
renovations that's people that came to
the open house like they loved it and
that's really what I think made itself
so fast because this place is just so
turnkey and there are just tons of
families that wanted to to make an offer
on it anyways with selling a house of
course one of the most important things
is pricing it right price it at market
below market if you price up a low
market you know you could drive some
competition which could make itself more
in the long run but it is a little bit
risky or you could price it at market
you know play it safe or if you want to
price it higher than that's probably not
the smartest because generally if you
price properties really expensively then
they just sit on the market for a long
time lose momentum and they take a long
time to sell so I knew it was really
important for this place to make it look
really visually appealing on the MLS so
of course that is the photography and
I've been doing photography for like 11
or 12 years I was like I can handle this
project myself I know that real estate
photography is a lot a lot different
than portraiture which is what I
normally do but you know I've shot
houses before so I do have some
experience doing that and I was pretty
confident that I could make this place
look really good another thing I did was
get a mater port 3d tour done any
listing out there today needs a 3d tour
because it lets people experience the
house you know kind of do a walk through
the house without actually coming here
and it really filters down the people
that see place online that looks good
but then like the layout doesn't really
work for them or whatever so everyone
can see the whole house walk through it
get a really good feel of the lay
out without leaving their own house
another really important thing that we
did was we took dusk photos and dust
those are photos you take of the
exterior of the house right at sunset so
it's like this really beautiful color
you know you get some gorgeous blues in
the skies and it really makes your
pictures stand out so obviously the
first picture that people see of the
house is probably going to be the
exterior for this house it's super
pretty outside so we want to make sure
that the viewers the potential buyers
could see just how nice this house
looked at sunset and the thing with dusk
photos is that they're generally
reserved for homes that are pretty
expensive le at least a million or two
million dollars because people the real
estate agents don't want to pay for
photos that's cost a lot because no one
you have to do dust pose the
photographer has to come out twice and
it's probably gonna cost like a maybe
twice as much alright another thing is
marketing so for marketing obviously
you're putting in the put on the MLS
because that's where the majority of
really motivated buyers are their agents
are always on the MLS looking at new
homes for them to see so yeah right when
you put this on the MLS the next morning
I had a bunch of agents call me and try
and schedule showings before our actual
open house date so what we did was we
actually had a pre open house that was
open just for agents with their clients
so that they all came through here and
saw the house two days before the actual
open house and when you put a house on
the market on the MLS it's going to
syndicate to all of the real estate
websites out there so Redfin Zillow
realtor comm all these sites are going
to have the listing and that's where
actually most people find find homes
that they want to buy these days buyers
they're gonna spend a ton of time on
their own looking online for houses that
want to buy and normally for a house
like this I would start to run some
Facebook ads some Instagram ads but in
this case you know we put the house on
the market and the attention that drew
was so overwhelming that I didn't even
have to do any in those ads I mean I
post it on Instagram on on Facebook on
my own personal pages I also posted it
on Facebook groups so lots of realtor
groups in the Los Angeles Orange County
and that can draw lots of attention yeah
marketing the house is really important
because the more eyes you get on the
house the more potential buyers there
are so yeah that kind of concludes this
whole tour hope guys like seeing the
inside of this house kind of going
through what it took to sell this house
so fast and yeah I just hope that all of
my listings are as easy as this one
alright thanks you guys for tuning in I
hope you found some value in this video
if not I hope you just enjoyed seeing
this house and kind of the steps I took
to get this house sold so fast so yeah
alright I'll see you guys in the next
