what's up you guys Charlie here so today
I'm gonna be showing you how you can get
your real estate license and get into
the real estate industry so the first
requirement is that you actually do have
to be 18 years old and this information
is based on California which is where
I'm based so if you're from somewhere
else in different state then the basic
sort of me the same but you know some of
the specifics might be a little bit
different so if you're not 18 years old
yet then you know you'll have to wait a
couple of years until you're 18 and
that's when you should get your license
but in the meantime you can definitely
do a lot of preparation and get yourself
in a really good position to jump into
the field there are tons of books out
there that you can read and they're
really gonna prepare you give you the
knowledge on what it takes to be a
successful real estate agent I recommend
getting a Kindle or you know going to
the library and just finding these books
and making it your mission to read them
you'll have to be a legal us resident
and of course you'll have to find a real
estate class pass it and take a test and
pass that as well so the first step is
you need to think why you want to get a
real estate license there are tons of
pros to getting it but you just have to
know like what your intentions are the
most obvious reason is of course to
become a real estate agent buy and sell
homes for other people you can also get
your real estate license to help buy and
sell homes for yourself as a real estate
investor by buying and selling yourself
you'll cut out those Commission costs
and you know get more profit for
yourself you can also get your real
estate license to maybe get your loan
license later on or eventually become a
broker yourself so the next step is
finding a pre-licensing course in
California the courses are 135 hours
that's 135 hours of in-class time
they're broken up into three sections
and in California that's going to be
your real estate principles your real
estate practice and your real estate
laws it's definitely a ton of
information so just be prepared for that
and probably the most common question I
get is like do I take an online class or
do I go take a more traditional
in-person class so I definitely do
recommend taking an online class if that
is suited for your learning style and
what I mean by that is
taking an online class it's a lot of
self-study so you have to be like really
dedicated and set yourself down for you
know two to six hours at a time and
really go through the information
yourself if you find it hard to study by
yourself then you know the online class
might be a bit tough for you that's
where a traditional classroom run by a
live instructor might be better because
it's gonna force you to study you have
to go to class every day and you know
talk to the professor and do all the
homework assignments but besides that
you're learning all the same information
is just that the teaching style is a bit
different online classes are also a lot
cheaper real estate Express I think is
like 100 bucks normally but they have
codes all the time that get you to it
maybe 70 80 bucks so you're paying that
little to get all the educational
requirements you need to get your real
estate license that's amazing
online classes you also don't need to
drive to a physical classroom every day
so you'll save lots of time and money on
gas and you can also learn whenever you
want so if you're working full-time or
your student you can just study at night
whenever you have some free time a
traditional classroom you have to block
out the hours per day for however long
to actually go to the class they'll
actually have a link to real estate
Express the course that I used in the
description I passed on my first try and
I really do think that it's because the
information in that course was really
valuable it was presented and they're
really easy to understand manner and it
was you know a lot easier to get through
than I expected next time you're gonna
have to study and pass this test so the
test is gonna be a hundred fifty
questions you need to get seventy
percent correct on the test to pass and
that's a hundred five questions correct
out of those 150 you'll have three hours
and 15 minutes to do it but most people
aren't going to need that whole time the
statistics aren't too clear on like the
passing rates but I've heard that for
first-time test takers the passing rate
is about 50% my biggest tip for studying
for the real estate exam is to just do a
ton of questions hopefully you've taken
the class and you've liked absorb the
knowledge pretty well you've actively
participated in taking notes just like
focused on the
information and have it stick in your
brain but studying for the test I go
over those notes main thing I really
recommend is going online buying a book
or a DVD or whatever that has a bunch of
test questions there's only a finite
number of ways that like they can ask
these types of real estate questions so
if you're going through these questions
and you do like thousands of them then I
really think it's like pretty guaranteed
that you'll pass read the question try
and do it yourself then look at the
answer and see why that answer is
correct do the snuff and you'll know all
the ways that they ask these questions
and you'll have no problem on the test
after you do pass the test first
congratulations second you're gonna have
to actually hang your license with a
real estate broker you can't buy or sell
properties with just a real estate sales
person's license you need to find a
broker that employs you hangs your
license and after that you'll be able to
buy insult property if you're really
trying to become a real estate agent I
recommend finding a brokerage that
offers a lot of mentorship and training
for new salespeople that way you're
gonna learn how to do all the stuff
because it's pretty complicated and
there's a lot that you do need to learn
if you're doing it just more for
yourself so that you can buy and sell
properties as investments then you might
not need to go through one of those big
traditional brokerages they're smaller
like online brokerages that don't take
as much commission from you when you do
buy or sell a home and if you're just
buying homes for yourself and selling
homes for yourself then you might not
need that mentorship and that training
but it really depends on your situation
talk to a few brokerages and see which
one works well for you there you go
that's how you get your real estate
license I got mine in two months so all
you have to do is kind of dedicate
yourself for those couple months you can
still work you can still hang out
friends and stuff you just need to put
in you know over a hundred hours into
the course study for however many hours
you need and take that class it's not
that hard to become a real estate agent
but it's very hard to become a good one
so yeah if you're thinking about getting
into this industry just know that it
doesn't take too much education and it
doesn't take too much time to actually
get your license you will need some
money to pay for the class pay for your
examinations pay for maybe a realtor
association if
courage requires one but besides that
it's a lot easier than most people would
think so good luck getting your real
estate license if you have any questions
please comment below and I'll answer
them all like and subscribe if you
haven't and I'll see you guys next time
