a lot of people want to know what are
the chances that I will book my audition
if I have an audition tomorrow
how likely am I to book it well we're
gonna talk about that in this video and
I'm gonna share with you my booking
percentage over the hundreds and
hundreds of auditions that I've done the
number may surprise you
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry my
name is Kurt you thank you so much for
joining me here today if this is your
first time here make sure to subscribe
to this channel to get more videos on
acting auditioning and career advice
every single week today we're talking
about how likely we are to book an
audition if you have an audition for a
movie or a TV show or a Netflix show or
anything what are the chances that you
will book it well the answer to this
question like so many other questions in
this industry is it depends
it depends on many factors for example
how many actors are auditioning for the
part if there are three actors
auditioning for the role well I'd say
you have a decent chance but if there
are 300 actors auditioning for it well
now your chances are a lot slimmer also
how close do you match the character
description if the writer or the
director has it in their heads that the
character is exactly your height and
exactly your complexion and your hair
color and your eye color and your body
type and everything well then you
probably have a better shot than some of
the other actors who don't fit the
description as well in the industry we
call this being right for the part every
actor has certain characteristics that
makes us right for some parts and wrong
for other parts a lot of these are
physical characteristics that we can't
change you might be too tall for some
parts you might be too short for other
parts I might be too old for some parts
I might be too young for other parts and
because this is show business
attractiveness does come into play as
well it's possible to be not
good-looking enough for some parts but
guess what it's also possible to be too
good-looking for other parts yeah that
happens too I didn't book the role of
James Bond I must be too good-looking
another factor that can either help or
hurt your chances of getting the part is
the rest of the cast remember that they
are casting a project not just one part
so your part needs to be able to fit
within the story along with the other
characters it doesn't just a
just out in a vacuum by itself so it
needs to be able to fit in this story
with all those other people who are
playing those characters and if it
happens to fit well then you've got a
better chance of being cast if you don't
happen to fit well then your chances are
slimmer let me give you an example I was
helping out with a casting session one
time and after the auditions were done
the casting director and the director
put all the headshots of their top
choices up on the wall they taped them
to the wall just so they could see all
the actors faces next to each other this
happens all the time
now in this particular movie there were
two roles for cops one was a sheriff and
one was a deputy now for the sheriff's
part there was one actor who everybody
really liked and he was their top choice
for the deputies part everybody had it
narrowed down to two actors and they
liked them both equally
one was a male and one was a female now
ultimately they decided that because the
actor who they wanted for the sheriff
was a male they wanted to go with a
female deputy because they wanted to
show more of a contrast between those
two characters so they ended up casting
the female deputy and the male actor
didn't get the part
now that male actor didn't do anything
wrong in fact he made it all the way to
the top two he didn't get the part
because there was something that was
completely outside of his control so I
hope everything we just talked about
helps you understand that there are many
factors that go into a casting decision
it can be very complex and a lot of
these factors we have very little
control over as the actors so that's why
it's really hard to say for any specific
audition how likely we are to get the
part I'm sure you've noticed by now that
I haven't mentioned anything about your
performance yet I've waited till the end
to talk about this for a reason of
course your actual audition plays a big
role in whether or not you get cast but
because of all of those other things
that we just talked about all of those
other factors that we don't have any
control over it's important to
understand that a great audition doesn't
guarantee that you will book the role in
fact you could do everything right you
could be the best actor who read for
that part and
still a chance that you don't get cast
this is the reality of the industry and
this is the reality of the life of an
now I'm not telling you this to
discourage you not at all in fact quite
the opposite I'm telling you this to
encourage you because so many actors
when they find out they didn't book
something they start wallowing around in
self-pity and start doubting themselves
and asking what did I do wrong well
maybe you didn't do anything wrong
maybe they just needed someone taller
maybe they needed someone older or maybe
they just needed someone of a different
ethnicity entirely what can you do about
that so we as actors we need to stop
beating ourselves up over failed
auditions because the truth is we have
no idea what are the determining factors
for any particular casting there are
infamous stories of directors rejecting
certain actors simply because those
actors remind them of their ex what can
you do in that situation right so don't
take it personally and definitely don't
think that your career is over
if you don't book one particular job if
you're just getting started and you go
out on your first handful of auditions
and you don't book any of them and
you're thinking oh man I just went on
all these auditions and I didn't book a
single one maybe I'm not good enough
maybe actually quit don't quit please
don't quit keep at it keep pushing
forward because just because you didn't
book your first few auditions that has
no bearing on what your future success
might be are you ready to hear what my
booking percentages my booking
percentage right now in 2020 twelve
years into my acting career as a working
actor I booked about 10 percent of my
auditions 10 percent that means 90
percent of the time when I get an
I don't book it but guess what ten
percent is actually a really good
percentage I'm doing really well with
percentage trust me look me up on IMDB
look at all the credits I have on IMDB
and everything that I've done that is a
guy who books 10% of his auditions so if
you book just one in 10 auditions in
your career you can have a pretty
successful acting career and for me 10%
is the average over time over hundreds
and hundreds of auditions there have
been some hot streaks and there have
definitely been some dry spells in fact
two years ago I had a streak of 37
straight auditions without booking a
single 137 that's that was just 2 years
ago that was someone 10 years into his
acting career who had already been on
dozens and dozens of movies and
television shows and still went 37
straight auditions without booking a
single one so I hope this actually
encourages you because if you're just
getting started and you don't book your
first 10 or 20 or 30 or 40 auditions
that doesn't necessarily mean that you
won't see success in the future so
please don't quit please don't give up
keep pushing forward now with all of
that being said how good your audition
is still does matter just because there
are some factors that are out of our
control doesn't mean we should just
leave it all up to chance we said before
that a great audition doesn't guarantee
that you will book the part but a bad
audition does guarantee that you won't
book the part so make sure you are
1,000% prepared for your auditions
practice practice practice your
auditions you've got to get better at
auditioning remember that
auditioning is a completely separate
skill than acting knowing how to act as
one thing know only how to audition is a
whole nother thing so practice how to
audition if you can get into an audition
class even better but learn how to
get better at the process of auditioning
and then you can maybe inch by inch get
that booking and percentage better and
better now if you're interested in
learning my 10 step audition preparation
process that has helped me book all of
the movies and television shows that
I've worked on then I've created a free
audit sheet that you can download by
going to that link right there alright
that's it for this video if you liked it
please give it a thumbs up and if you
haven't already please subscribe to this
channel if you have any questions leave
them down in the comments below until
next time keep practicing keep learning
and I hope to see you on set one day
