so you're walking into the audition room
feeling super confident because of how
well-prepared you are you've got your
lines all memorized you've made some
awesome choices and you're just you're
just ready to rock it but right before
you start they throw a curveball at you
and ask so tell me about yourself do you
want to know why they asked you this
question you want to know what you
should say and what you definitely
shouldn't say I'll tell you the answers
in just a sec hey guys it's Kurt from
small-market actor calm in this video
I'll be talking about how to deal with
the dreaded tell me about yourself
question I remember the first time I was
asked this question in an audition and I
was totally caught off guard by it the
audition was for a commercial for a home
improvement product and as I walked into
the audition room I was running the
lines one last time in my head to make
sure I had them down when one of the
clients said to me so Kurt tell me about
yourself uh-huh
Oh died uh I like um I like I like
sandwiches okay so my actual response
probably wasn't quite that bad but it
was still pretty bad and here's what
really sought not only was I totally
unprepared for that question and had no
idea how to answer it but the whole
situation throughout my entire audition
because I was so in my head about the
stupid tell me about yourself question
needless to say I did not book the job
so in order to help you avoid making the
same mistake I did
I'm gonna share with you everything that
I've learned since about why that
question is asked and what you should
and definitely shouldn't say in response
while it may seem vague and meaningless
to you there are actually a number of
reasons why a casting director a
director or a client might ask you tell
me about yourself in an audition room so
here are the top three reasons one they
want to get a sense of your personality
casting decisions aren't made on the
basis of acting ability alone clients
are also looking at the real person
they'll be working with
on set so a big reason why this question
is asked is to strike up a conversation
with you to make sure that you're a nice
person to be around and you're in a
total nut case
- they want to see if your personality
translates to the camera guess what even
though this isn't part of your actual
they'll be recording your answer to this
question why because your ability to
look comfortable natural and real on
camera even in an unscripted situation
like this will be a big factor in their
sometimes on a shoot the director will
ask the actors to improvise some
dialogue they need to see that you're
not gonna totally freeze up if that
happens three they want to see you tell
a story
actors are storytellers whether you're
in a play a movie a TV show or you're
given a commercial you're telling a
story of some kind so if you're able to
show them that you can tell an
entertaining or compelling story of your
own it would give them much more
confidence that you're the right person
to tell their story okay now that we
know why you're being asked that tell me
about yourself question let's talk about
how to answer it now I can't tell you
exactly what to say because this is a
personal question that you're gonna have
to answer based on your own life but I
can give you a few general tips first
talk about something you're genuinely
enthusiastic and passionate about your
energy will be contagious and will get
them excited about your audition and
more importantly it's gonna look a lot
better and a lot more interesting on
camera to see somebody with some life in
them rather than someone who just stands
there and says uh hi uh my name is John
Doe I'm 45 years old
I'm married and I live in Omaha
boring boring be enthusiastic and
interesting and you will be remembered
for it look even better have a great and
funny story to tell
listen these people have been sitting in
that casting room for hours watching
boring audition after boring audition if
you can get them to laugh and break up
the monotony you will stand out
also don't forget to smile if your story
isn't laugh-out-loud funny or super
interesting just a smile alone will
bring up the energy okay before we end
this video let me briefly mention some
things that you should definitely avoid
talking about first avoid anything
negative don't talk about how you just
got a speeding ticket or your dog needs
to have surgery look even if you're
really passionate about your dogs it's
just gonna bring down the energy in the
room second avoid showing desperation
saying things like oh you guys you guys
won't be disappointed in me if you cast
me I'll be very reliable and I'll always
be on time and I'm really great at
learning my lines and I love acting
look stuff like that reeks of
desperation and it's just not attractive
third avoid talking about acting they
already know you're an actor they have
your headshot your resume right there in
front of them and you're in their
audition for crying out loud so show
them that you're not just an actor that
you have a life outside of acting and
finally avoid babbling keep it short and
to the point
don't take up their entire day you may
have a super interesting story to tell
but they still have a job to do and
other actors to see so if you've got a
great five minute long story to tell
shrink it down to the Cliff's Notes
version and give them that all right so
hopefully now you won't be caught
completely off-guard like I was when
someone asked you that dreaded tell me
about yourself in an audition all right
if you like this video please give it a
thumbs up right over here and leave me a
comment too I'd love to hear about the
first time you were asked tell me about
yourself and how you responded
