what's up you guys so today I wanted to
talk about what renovations you can do
to get the most bang for your buck on
any property now whether it's for a
long-term rental for a flip or just for
a property that you want to live in all
these tips are gonna apply and they're
gonna help you build the most equity for
the least amount of money I know lots of
people are a little bit strapped for
cash so you're not gonna have you know
the unlimited budget to fix everything
in the house that that you want to do
these are the essential things that you
want to do in order to gain the most
value and when you do have the cash
later on maybe you can do the other
things but from an investment standpoint
these are gonna be the things that you
want to focus on so the first thing is
like personally when I walk into a place
that has like dim lighting that is dark
and not very inviting I'm not gonna
really enjoy it so I think it's very
important to get really good lighting in
your house and to do that you're gonna
need recessed lights now these are the
lights that are in your ceiling and are
flush so they don't really stick out
they look very modern and they're gonna
add lots of value to your house the
first choice you're gonna have is what
size recessed lights you want so you can
either choose 4 inch or 6 inch lights
personally I went with 4 inch because
that is more modern that's more of the
trend right now six inch lights are
gonna give you more light a better
spread but they look more bulky four
inch lights look better on your ceiling
so that's just kind of what I would do
the next choice that you're gonna have
is what color temperature you want it's
gonna range from twenty seven hundred K
which is like the most yellow light to
five thousand K which is gonna be a very
bluish light it's more like something
you'd find in a hospital now obviously I
throw away the four or five thousand k
light options those are way too blue
it's not gonna be comfortable you're
gonna want something more like a 2700 K
or 3,000 K now personally we chose to do
3000 K because I found that was the best
soft white light it wasn't too yellow
like 2700 K where it looked like an
Edison bulb but it wasn't too blue and
when you do in solid lights make sure to
get dimmers from most of them it's a
very cheap option and it's gonna let you
play with the intensity of the light
which can come in really handy sometimes
now before you install those lights if
you do have those popcorn ceilings that
are found on lots of the older homes
definitely scrape those off repaint it
another thing that you can do to bring
lots of value to your house is change
the paint and changing the paint is
super cheap it's very easy you can even
do it yourself what I'll do is choose
more modern colors so baby go for
something like a white or a light gray
it's going to be universal lots of
people are gonna like it and you won't
have any trouble selling it or renting
it out gone are the days when you have
those like nasty yellow walls that look
like cigarette smoke have been like
permeated within the pigments so yeah
get rid of those nasty walls and get
something more modern while you are
painting the place you might as well
change the baseboards and add some crown
molding it's gonna make your place a lot
more classy looking I think these days
you can get those MDF crown molding or
baseboards at Lowe's or Home Depot for
very cheap they range from maybe like 50
cents a square foot to five ten dollars
but you can just go for something that's
around one dollar it's gonna look great
once you paint it it's not going to
matter too much and what you can do is
kind of offset the colors so choose
maybe a light gray for the walls and for
the molding and the trims choose maybe a
glossy white so it can pop and coming
back to the main space of your home it's
probably gonna be the kitchen the
kitchen is probably the most important
selling point of any house because it's
gonna be where you and your guests are
most of the time whenever we have people
hang out we're typically right here in
the kitchen or in the living room you
know most of our guests won't even go to
your bedrooms so if you want to impress
definitely don't skimp on the kitchen
the first thing that people do these
days is they like to make it an
open-concept place so what that means is
they're gonna tear down the walls and
have the kitchen kind of blend in with
the living room it's gonna make the
space feel a lot more open a lot bigger
and it's gonna get rid of those
compartmentalized rooms that were super
popular back in the day and now the
cabinets can be either an easy fix or
you can spend a lot of money if the
cabinets are still in relatively good
shape what I would do is just change out
the hinges and all the knobs the handles
and maybe sand down the surface and
repaint it it's gonna bring a whole new
life to your cabinets and it's going to
look totally different than before I've
seen lots of people transform those
old-school like oak cabinets paint them
and it looks completely new now as for
the countertop that can still be very
expensive it depends on what type of
material you choose we went for a quartz
which is quite expensive but it's more
luxurious if you're doing a rental you
can definitely get by with maybe
laminates or a wood countertop you still
look really great but they're gonna be a
lot cheaper and don't even think about
getting the granite or the marble unless
you have tons of cash to blow those look
really nice and they're luxurious but
they stain really easily a kitchen
remodel can range anywhere from a few
thousand dollars all the way to fifty a
hundred thousand dollars it totally
depends on things that you are choosing
to do now if your house is worth
$400,000 I don't think it's gonna make
much sense to invest fifty grand into
your kitchen every dollar you spend it's
not gonna bring that much more equity
into your house whereas if you spend
maybe five thousand dollars resurface
the cabinets get some new countertops
and new flooring and new appliances then
it's gonna increase the value of the
house by a lot so this brings me to the
flooring which is also really really
important what I would do is go for a
laminate or a luxury vinyl these are
man-made planks that look a lot like
hardwood floor they're gonna be a lot
cheaper but they're also gonna be a lot
more scratch resistant and waterproof
and these laminate luxury vinyl floors
are often really easy to install so you
can either do them yourself or pay
someone else if you do choose to pay
someone else the installation costs are
gonna be a lot less than for a more
complex hardwood floor definitely skip
out on the carpet especially if your
house is going to be a rental because
carpets are a pain in the ass to clean
up whenever your tent moves out you're
probably gonna have to either power wash
them or change them fully and when you
do choose a laminate luxury vinyl
flooring don't cheap out don't get the
stuff that's like a dollar square foot
because those are the types of floors
that when they get water on them they're
gonna start to warp and after a few
years you're gonna have to change them
and that's gonna waste a lot of money so
start with the good stuff sorry anything
from two to four dollars I think is a
great price range and it's gonna hold up
for a long time the installation of the
force is going to be the most expensive
part of the flooring the floors
cost too much money but they are a bit
difficult to install especially if you
have stairs that's gonna cost a lot more
money so that's just that heads up so
next is the bathrooms bathrooms can be
an easy fix or they can also be very
expensive what we chose to do is replace
the vanities the counter tops the sinks
the toilets and also the flooring these
aren't too expensive if you go to either
Lowe's or Home Depot during a sale
you're gonna be able to find these
vanities for like 80 bucks and they're
gonna work perfectly no one has to know
that you got these things on sale you
know so just find those good deals and
they're gonna make your ROI even better
toilets range from maybe a hundred bucks
to 300 bucks so it's cheap replacement
and new toilets are a lot nicer than the
older ones we also did change out the
flooring to new porcelain tiles
porcelain tiles are really cheap they
make your place look like a luxury hotel
so I definitely recommend doing that and
if your bathroom has like those old pink
or off-white tiles with the gross grout
and I definitely want to change that
what you can do if you don't have too
much cash to work with is you can just
paint over all that get rid of those
grout lines and just choose like a white
pure color it's gonna make the
countertop look a lot newer so yeah a
lot of these things you can do yourself
or you can definitely hire it out if
it's your first time doing it
I probably start to contract these jobs
out to other people they're
professionals they know what to do they
will do a better job and if you wouldn't
do it yourself but make sure the
renovations are useful make sure that
they are adding valley to the house and
they are not too customized or too
different in a sense where people might
not like it and they might not want to
rent out or buy your house so they call
these the HGTV homes it's what you see
on TV it's like that very safe modern
look that lots of people are going to
like don't be too bold
you can add some personality but if your
main goal is to get the best ROI I would
say stick with something safer so yeah
thanks guys for watching these are
things that I learned through three
months of renovations for this place we
spent a $42,000 learn a lot of stuff and
that was able to bring in an equity
boost of about $175,000 so I want you
guys to be able to take the same skills
that I learned and
by them to your own homes or for
properties that you do want to buy these
concepts are gonna work for a wide range
of pumps if you're buying a complete
fixer-upper then do everything I just
stated if you're buying a house that's
more turnkey but there are some things
that you want to change you know focus
on these things because that's what's
gonna make the most money for you based
on how much you spend thanks guys for
watching if you did like this video and
found it informative please give it a
like and subscribe if you want to see
more content like this
