you want to start self taping your
auditions from home well let me share
with you my ten commandments of self
taping let's get right to it
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
in to the film and television industry
my name is Kurt you thank you so much
for joining me here today
if you haven't already please subscribe
to this channel to get more videos on
acting auditioning and career advice
every single week alright today we're
gonna be talking about self taped
auditions before we get to the 10
commandments let me tell you about a
list of self taping tools that I've
created on the acting Career Center
website that link is in the description
below it's a list of cameras and lights
and microphones and tripods and editing
software basically anything you can
think of that can help you make yourself
taped auditions look and sound amazing
alright let's talk about self taping
there are very few things in acting in
this career that I think are hard and
fast rules that don't have any
exceptions oftentimes someone will tell
you yes you have to do this in your
acting career well you'll find about 500
exceptions that don't apply to that rule
but these 10 things for self taping I
have found are as close to unbreakable
rules as you'll ever find in your acting
career and that's why I'm calling them
the 10 commandments of self taping so
let's get to it self taping commandment
number one is to follow the audition
instructions oftentimes when you get a
self taped audition request from a
casting director that will also send
along taping instructions make sure you
read and you follow those taping
instructions those instructions overrule
all of these self taping Commandments
why because sometimes there will be
specific instructions for your
particular character that don't
generally apply otherwise so make sure
you read and you follow those
instructions as best as you can if you
get a self taped audition request that
does not come with instructions well
then let's move on to these next nine
commandments self taping commandment
number two is to have a non distracting
background this stuff back here is cool
for my youtube video
I would never have it in myself taped
audition that's because I don't want
anything back here distracting the
viewers attention from my face you want
to make sure you hold the viewers
attention on your face at all times so I
think a solid color wall is the best
option in my opinion using a neutral
color like a a gray or a blue is best
some people like to use a bedsheet or a
curtain just make sure it's a neutral
color lime green or red or a really
bright color sometimes can also be
distracting wrinkles can also be
distracting so if you are using a
bedsheet make sure you earn out all of
those wrinkles self stamping commandment
number three is to make sure your video
is horizontal many of you will want to
use a phone to tape your auditions which
is totally fine because most phones have
HD cameras but if you are using your
phone do not shoot your audition video
vertically turn your foot turn your
phone sideways and shoot your audition
horizontally save those vertical videos
for Instagram and tick tock your
audition videos should be horizontal
self tapping commandment number four is
to put your camera on a tripod no matter
what camera you are using you should
stabilize it on a tripod so if I were
using my phone I would just put it on a
tripod with an adapter like this that
way the camera is not going to be moving
around now do not have someone try to
hold it steady for your audition it's
not gonna look good at all so make sure
whether you are using a phone a
camcorder a DSLR I don't care if you are
using the backup camera on your Toyota
Prius put that on a tripod to stabilize
it you can combine tripods like these
this is a pretty basic tripod you can
find them on Amazon for like twenty five
thirty dollars check out that list of
self taping tools linked in the
description below to see something like
this self taping commandment number five
is to make sure your camera is roughly
eye level you don't want your camera
down here looking up your nose okay so
raise that camera too
roughly eye level an easy way to do this
is with a tripod self taping commandment
number six is to make sure the actor is
well lit earlier we talked about keeping
the viewers attention on our face what
we also want to make sure they can see
everything that's happening in our face
all the expression changes anything
that's happening within our eyes we want
to make sure the viewer can see all of
that all of the great acting that we're
doing our face needs to be well lit for
them to see that sometimes you're gonna
get an audition that that says it takes
place outside at night or it's a you're
locked in a pitch-black closet don't
worry about that don't worry about
lighting it dark leave that for the
actual movie we're trying to film our
audition we're kind of trying to show
our acting so make sure you are well lit
in any situation self taping commandment
number seven is that the actor should be
louder than the reader who is the actor
the actor is the person auditioning who
is on camera the reader is the person
standing out of frame off camera who is
delivering the other lines who's
basically your scene partner for your
audition I've heard many auditions where
the reader their voice is louder than
the person auditioning you don't want
this to happen because their voice is
going to overpower yours and it's gonna
take attention away from you
this happens sometimes because the
reader is standing closer to the camera
than the person auditioning and there's
therefore they're standing closer to the
microphone this is why I like to use
external microphones when I'm taping an
audition because I can put that
microphone closer to me and further away
from the reader self tape and
commandment number eight is to have a
quiet set earlier we talked about not
having visual distractions well we
should also not have audio distractions
either we want to make sure our set is
completely quiet for our self taped
audition so if there's a TV on in the
other room that you can hear from where
you're taping make sure you go turn that
off I will go as far as to turn off my
air conditioning and my heat because I
don't want in the
middle of my audition to hear the
furnace room blare up because that takes
attention away from my audition so make
sure you have a quiet set we all know
that phrase quiet on set that applies
for yourself taped audition as well self
taping commandment number nine is to
keep your file sizes small remember that
you're gonna have to be uploading these
videos either directly to the casting
director or on actors access or some
other casting platform so it'll be
easier if you have a smaller file size
you don't want to be uploading a
gigabyte of video right my audition
videos are usually between 20 and 30
megabytes which are very manageable to
upload so how do you keep your file size
as small well one thing you can do is to
not shoot in 4k I know some of you have
phones or cameras that can shoot 4k
video you don't need to do that for your
audition right that's gonna make
enormous file sizes you don't need
nobody needs to zoom in on your face and
see every single pore in your audition
video it's perfectly fine to shoot in
1080p for your auditions if you happen
to shoot in 1080p and your file sizes
are for some reason still way too big to
upload then you can get this free tool
it's a free video transcoder called
that's for mac and pc that can help you
compress your video files I've linked
handbrake in that list of audition tools
down below self taping commandment
number 10 the final commandment is to
turn your audition in on time this
should go without saying but I've heard
so many casting directors talk about
getting late auditions quite frequently
there is absolutely no excuse to turn an
audition in late if you turn your
audition in late you're almost
guaranteed that they're gonna throw it
in the trash I'm never gonna watch it
why is that that's because when you turn
an audition in late the casting
directors lose trust in you because if
they can't trust you to turn your
audition in on time how can they trust
you to arrive on set on time to arrive
to your actual shoot on time they can't
so how can you make sure
that you will guarantee you can turn
your audition in on time well something
that I like to do is that I will give
myself a different deadline than the
actual audition deadline for instance if
the casting director sets the deadline
for Friday at noon I give myself a
personal deadline of Thursday at noon
now you don't have to give yourself a
full extra day you can give yourself an
extra couple hours whatever it is but
give yourself some buffer time before
it's actually due because you don't know
what might come up right just in case
something comes up you have some extra
time and you haven't waited until the
last minute so give yourself some buffer
time just in case anything crazy comes
up to make sure you will always turn
your auditions in on time all right
that's it for this video those were my
ten commandments of self taping did you
agree with that list do you not agree
was there something you think I left off
that list leave me a comment down below
and we can argue about it if you like
this video give me a thumbs up if you
didn't like it give me a thumbs down
subscribe to this channel if you haven't
already and remember there's that list
of self taping tools in the description
down below until next time keep
practicing keep learning and I can't
wait to see you on set one day
