when it comes to auditions props are no
now this is actually a heavily debated
topic some casting directors say sure go
ahead and use props if it helps you
believe in the circumstance but other
casting directors say no absolutely not
props are distracting and focus on the
performance great now we're getting
conflicting information what do we do
well that's the topic of this video hey
guys it's Kurt from small market after
calm now before I get into my thoughts
on the props versus no props to be I
just want to say that there's definitely
no one right answer to this question now
I'm sure many of you watching this video
have acting and auditioning experience
so please feel free to share in the
comments below what your approach is to
using props and auditions ok so what's
my take when it comes to using props
well I actually have two answers one for
film and TV auditions and one for
commercials so for film and TV auditions
my rule of thumb is to generally avoid
using props unless I really feel like
it'll add value to my performance
without being distracting and if I do
decide to use a prop I'll try to keep it
really simple like a cell phone or a
clipboard now commercial auditions
totally different story
I do not shy away from using props in
fact I use them pretty regularly in my
commercial auditions No why is this
what's the difference okay well if you
think about it a TV show or a movie is
an hour or two long and is telling a
story so props are not the main focus of
a production like this and thus should
not be a featured role in your auditions
commercials on the other hand are 30
seconds long and are usually selling a
product so oftentimes the prop is the
main focus of a production like this and
should have a featured role in your
audition let me give you a couple of
examples so say I have an audition for a
film and in the scene is a husband and a
wife and they're repainting their
bedroom while debating whether or not to
get a dog okay so in an audition like
this there's no need to bring in a paint
can and a paintbrush or any other
prop like that the action of painting
the bedroom should not be the focus of
the audition the focus should be on the
conversation and the emotional reality
between the husband and the wife while
they were debating now for a
hypothetical audition like this I would
not use props at all okay now let's
imagine I have a commercial audition for
a new brand of paint brushes and in this
scene again it's a husband and a wife
and they're repainting their bedroom but
now they're talking to the camera to the
viewer about how much they love using
their new paint brushes so in this type
of production the prop plays a very
important role because the whole point
of the commercial is to get people to
buy that product now of course the most
important part of the audition is still
your ability to deliver the message in a
believable and compelling fashion but I
would argue that just as important is
your ability to demonstrate the product
so maybe you're showing off the new
ergonomic handle or the Badger hair
bristles or whatever the heck paint
brushes are made out of the point is is
that this type of production the action
of using the paintbrush does play an
important role so using a prop in your
audition would be justified okay that's
my take on props and auditions agree
disagree let me know in the comments
