back in 2016 I had the incredible
opportunity to work on an episode of The
Vampire Diaries during its final season
to date it's still one of the most
interesting on set experiences I've ever
had so in this video I want to share
with you a few lessons that I've learned
while working on the Vampire Diaries
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
in to the film and television industry
my name is Kurt you thank you for
spending some time here with me today on
another installment of the what I
learned series of videos a couple weeks
ago I published a video titled
what I learned while working with two
oscar-winning actors the link is in the
description below if you haven't seen
that already speaking of links in the
description below if you're at all
interested in learning the audition
process that I use that has helped me
book television shows like The Vampire
Diaries and many others then I've
created a free audit sheet that you can
get at the acting Career Center website
that link is also in the description
alright let's talk about the vampire
diaries this is probably the most
popular show I've ever worked on it's
definitely the longest-running show I've
ever worked on I appeared in season 8
episode 12 prior to that it had already
been running for nine and a half years
and a hundred and sixty-six
episodes the cast and crew were working
together like a well-oiled machine
probably because they had been working
together for so long and I do feel like
the longevity of the show also
contributed to a couple of the lessons
that I learned which we'll get to in a
minute but the first lesson that I
learned had to do with my audition when
I got the audition it was for a police
officer who was interviewing a little
girl about her missing mother since the
audition was a sell tape and I had the
freedom to record it however I wanted my
first instinct was to do the audition
sitting down at a desk I mean I've seen
enough movies and television shows and
I'm sure you have as well to have a good
idea of how this scene should look a cop
or a detective who's sitting across the
table from someone that they're
interviewing or talking to we've seen
the scene a million times so my instinct
was to sit down at a desk kind of lean
forward and talk to the little girl like
this well let me show you a screenshot
from my audition video next to a
screenshot from the actual show
I mean my positioning is almost exactly
the same even the framing is almost
exactly the same so my point here isn't
to tell you how much of a genius I am
we'll save that for another video my
point here is to tell you to follow your
instincts because we've all seen enough
content to know how a lot of these
scenes should look especially these
smaller scenes that just move the story
along the coast are scenes and the
supporting character scenes so here's
the $10,000 question if I had done the
audition standing up rather than sitting
down what I still have booked it who
knows right I mean there's no way to
know there's no way to go back in time
and to redo it and find out but a lot of
people will say that sitting down and
standing up for an audition they make no
difference because the most important
part of an audition is what's going on
here and I agree with that to an extent
I mean yes the most important part of an
audition is what's happening in your
face especially in your eyes but I will
also argue that body language is a huge
part of human communication and thus it
should also be a big part of how we
approach our characters and how we
approach our acting so back to the
original question of was was sitting
down and leaning forward to talk to the
little girl the reason that I booked it
probably not but it might have helped it
certainly didn't hurt the next lesson
that I learned was to always be ready to
perform some shows will feel a lot
faster paced than others and I'm not
talking about the pace of the storyline
when you're watching the show I'm
talking about when you're on set as a
cast or a crew member the pace of the
production and how quickly they got
scenes set up and shot felt a lot faster
on the Vampire Diaries at least on the
day that I was there than on any other
set that I've been on and as an actor I
was a little caught off guard by it and
if I hadn't been as prepared as I was it
might have thrown me off so here's what
happened they put us in a production ban
bring us to set and as soon as we got
there I think it was the first ad who
met us at the curb he introduced himself
and told us to follow him inside into
the building where we would be filming
our scene and once we got inside he had
us he showed me the desk the police
officers desk that I would be sitting at
and the little girl would be sitting on
the other side
sidenote the actress who played the
little girl was the very talented Navia
robinson who after we did this episode
of The Vampire Diaries she went on to
become a huge Disney star anyway so he
showed us where we would be sitting and
what felt like milliseconds after we sat
down I heard him say first team
rehearsal rehearsals up and action I
mean I was definitely caught off guard a
little bit because I was still kind of
taking in the scenery I was checking out
my desk I was checking out the police
station set that we were shooting in and
it took me a second to kind of gather
myself to even remember what my first
line was to start the rehearsal but of
course after a couple seconds I
remembered it and we got through the
rehearsal the point here is that I
shouldn't have been caught off guard and
I should have been ready to perform and
maybe I should have seen this coming
because they were a cast and crew that
had been working together for so long
they were very fast and very efficient
and I as an actor when I come on set I
need to be able to fit right in and I
needed to be able to perform right away
time is money on a movie or a television
show set so once our number is called we
need to be able to perform immediately
the last lesson I learned that day came
from watching Paul Wesley and Candace
King who play Stefan and Caroline on the
show two of the main characters it was
really interesting to see how loose and
relaxed they were on set they would be
laughing and joking with each other in
between takes all the time and don't get
me wrong
I've seen plenty of actors do that I do
that but whenever I see the crew getting
really close to starting to shoot I
would stop all that and I would
to focus with the two of them it felt
like they waited until the very last
moment before action was called before
they stop joking around
but they would be able to instantly turn
that off and get into character I mean
there was one take that I remember where
the crew was getting ready to shoot and
I started to focus on my scene Paul and
Candice were standing on their marks but
they were kind of joking and laughing
with each other and the first ad calls
roll camera roll sound and meanwhile
they're still laughing and then they do
the slate scene 15 take one and they're
still laughing and then camera operator
says camera set still laughing and
action and that somewhere between the
word and and the word action
they stopped joking with each other and
they focused and on in character
immediately and then they did the scene
perfectly their transition from joking
around to complete focus was seamless
and perfect and seemed effortless it
felt like they had been doing it for
years which is exactly the point they
had been doing it for years they've been
doing the show for eight seasons and
over a hundred and sixty episodes of
course they're gonna be comfortable and
relaxed on set and be able to get into
character quickly it probably feels like
tying their shoes to them this is just
another example of something in life
that gets easier the more that you do it
so the lesson here is if you are a newer
actor and you still get camera shy or
nervous when you're in front of the
camera what's the solution keep doing it
keep going to acting class in your
on-camera classes start recording
yourself at home
constantly whatever you can do whatever
you can do to make the feeling of being
on camera feel more normal because the
more that you do it the easier it's
gonna be all right that's it for this
video if you liked it please give me a
thumbs up and if you haven't already
subscribed to this channel and don't
forget to get your free audition cheat
sheet from
acting career center comp until next
time if you practice and keep learning
and I hope to see you on set with day
