hi guys and welcome back to my channel
today is going to be a really fun video
because i'm going to be chatting with
you what i believe have been the best
investments that i have made into my
small business from when i started my
photography business to now being an
online educator what are the things that
actually pushed me forward and what when
i made those investments did i make them
10 times back and so that's what we're
gonna dive into today i'm very excited
to share all about my thoughts on this
so let's go ahead and talk about the
very first one so the first thing that i
truly believe changed my business and
the way that i was able to grow
is investing into paid education so this
you know comes from it goes from
everything to online courses to more
tangible resources like downloadable
templates and ebooks to
um you know even one-on-one coaching or
maybe even like in-person conference
experiences but for me when i have
invested into amazing paid education
those have like been what i make those
investments back so well and for me it's
more about choosing great quality
educators versus just um you know the
con the content topic obviously the
topic needs to be something i want to
learn about right
but what i have found to be like out of
the paid education that i have done the
ones that make the best investment back
are the ones where i know the educators
are incredible they have a great you
know they have solid experience teaching
and helping others in their area of
expertise and that's where i've really
seen a huge investment come back
especially when
so for a couple examples when i had my
photography business uh online courses
were incredible for me i did an um
online course for example on how to
um have better lighting for my images
and that transformed the way my images
looked and instantly elevated my
photography business or as another
example for um you know what i'm doing
now more with like online education and
passive income i've joined at this point
two masterminds now both of those have
been so incredibly helpful in more of
that side of my business and the passive
income side and learning all the things
that come with that but not only that at
this stage in my business getting that
one-on-one support and feedback from you
know my mastermind coach or the other
members of the mastermind has been
absolutely huge for me so that's the
first one is paid education not
investing into it and taking even though
it might seem like a little bit of a
risk sometimes to invest if you know the
educator is incredible and that they are
quality then and there's someone you can
trust i know without a doubt you're
gonna get that investment back the
second thing that i've invested a lot
into in my business that truly has
allowed me to grow so much is my team of
people so that you know the people who
work with me because i do not do
everything alone um they are incredible
and back when i was doing photography
my team really consisted of myself i had
several second shooters that would work
with me at weddings i had a photo editor
i had a virtual assistant that would
help me with serving my clients really
really well and keeping up with their
workflows and the back end of things a
little bit um so as my business has
changed though my team has definitely
changed as well
i'm in the midst of actually hiring
another administrative assistant so
that's going to be super exciting change
by the time you guys see this video that
change might have already happened but
at this point i still have my virtual
assistant who works for me and just a
lot of the behind the scenes in my
business especially especially when it
comes to like this youtube channel but
she also does a lot of content copy for
me so a lot of the copy you see written
in my emails or on my blog and things
like that she's actually the one writing
them for me and she knows my brand voice
so well that she can take what i do on
video or photo and turn it into amazing
written copy and i also have a video
editor lily who currently edits all of
my youtube videos and my course content
and all of those things which is
incredibly helpful as well so
it's just been awesome to see
like and for me you know whenever i put
those investments again it might feel a
little risky at first hiring someone new
or teaching someone to do something but
once that system is in place once that
person is in their sweet spot and they
know what they're doing and they're
doing a really good job at it it is
incredible to see just how much your
business can soar because you're not the
one doing everything and you can focus
even more on the only the things that
you need to do in your business and
you're not trying to juggle all of these
different things right and so i would
truly say just outsourcing and hiring
and building a team of people around me
to help me my business and i didn't even
touch on i have a lot of independent
contractors that i work with so you know
from a copywriter to a videographer to
you know there's just there's so many
moving parts to different things in my
business that i do have a lot of people
who are helping so i'm not doing
everything and ultimately it does make
me more money because i can focus on the
things that i am really gifted at that
only i really need to do and then i'm
able to do more of that and grow the
business and not be caught up in a lot
of the day-to-day tasks so my team has
by far been one of the best investments
that i have made the third investment
that i have made that has been
absolutely incredible for me is my brand
and website so my brand is from or my
website design is from elizabeth mccravy
and i actually have a 12 off coupon for
her website templates if you're
interested in checking them out but i
essentially took one of our website
templates i created a brand and added it
into the template and the awesome thing
is you can change literally anything
about her templates it's absolutely
and the reason why i say that it was an
awesome investment
is because when you have a brand that is
very like someone sees your brand and
they instantly know it's you it's so
important whether it's you know from
even your your brand messaging whether
it's your brand visuals all of those
pieces come together so people know who
you are and get a sense of you know what
you can do for them and what your
brand's all about and the whole vibe of
your brand like all of those things are
super important and so for me investing
into a website template and creating a
brand was truly such a great investment
that while i might not be able to
pinpoint okay like when i made that
investment like i got x number of
dollars back i truly do know like having
a great solid foundation for your
business is a part of having a great
solid foundation for your business is
having a solid brand and so for me i
know that with having a great brand has
only elevated my business as a whole and
taking it to a whole new level
and elizabeth's website templates as
well the reason why i love them is
there's so much strategy already built
into the templates so there was a lot of
things that i wasn't even incorporating
onto my website or with the way that
things were laid out or things were
included on different pages that her
website templates included and i was
able to you know just elevate my brand
in that way my website and make it an
awesome experience for anybody who is
coming to my website so i do want to
mention here that i didn't hire anyone
to create my brand i did create my brand
myself just because i have a lot of
experience in graphic design i knew
exactly what i wanted my brand to be
like but i did purchase a website
template from elizabeth because um i
didn't want to have to create all that
myself again i want to do the things
that only i can do and the only thing
the things that i am great at so i did
purchase one of your website templates
and it was an incredible investment i
would do it over and over again number
four on the best investments that i've
made for my business is masterminds and
i kind of touched on this a little bit
earlier when it came to pit education
but i really wanted to pinpoint it here
as something that has truly transformed
my business in the past i would say a
good year and a half so i joined my
first mastermind january of 2020 and it
was all focused on passive income and
that mastermind opened my eyes to so
many things that i just literally had no
idea about like when it came to
creating courses and launching them in
digital products and sales funnels and
like there's so many things that go into
that and the mastermind because it was
focused on passive income not only was i
getting a lot of feedback from the other
people in the mastermind i was learning
so many new things about all of these
different topics
and so i would say that that mastermind
as well as i'm currently in a mastermind
it actually ends in november of 2021
that i've been in for about six months
that bus joint has been incredible as
well because that one is a little bit
more focused on being a hot seat style
mastermind so with a hot seat style
mastermind that means that instead of
having like a specific focus or you know
having the the leader of the mastermind
teaching you things on the mastermind
calls it's more focused on you know we
maybe have a guest interview or two a
guest or two come on for us to like chat
with but a lot of the mastermind is
focused around us bringing projects that
we're working on and getting feedback
from our coach and from the other
mastermind members and that like has
been incredible for me and just being
able to
get feedback and to know like what i
might want to change and have almost
like a sounding board for ideas i have
my business and things i'm working on
because you know there
it's hard when you
i'll put it this way so when you're a
business owner there's just so many
things that you are working through and
figuring out and doing you know no
matter if you're a personal brand or a
content creator or if you own a product
business like there's just there's so
many things that go into it and i feel
like unless you also own a business it's
hard to understand what those things are
no bad about that but it's just
you know the thing about that is it is
really incredible and so beneficial to
have those people around you who are
doing similar things to you and who
understand what you're doing and how
you're trying to do it and why you're
trying to do it and to give you great
ideas because they're also like amazing
business owners so the mastermind that i
have done have just been incredible for
that reason and just getting feedback on
not only learning new content but when i
implement that content you know seeing
is there anything else i can improve
anything else i can change getting new
ideas that has been awesome the fifth
investment that i've managed my business
that truly has made such a difference is
my email list and this might sound a
little bit weird like stephanie like
that how is that actually an investment
but i truly i think it is i think you
know obviously you have to pay for an
email list you have to spend time
setting it up you have to spend time you
know get adding people to your email
list having a strategy with all of that
and for me
having an email list especially for my
specific type of business because i'm
such an online brand and a lot of the
ways that i connect with you guys is so
virtual and email has been very
important to me and making a priority
a priority to me in my business not just
in the way i can connect with you guys
but to be completely transparent and you
know being able to offer you things and
for you to you know to see what are the
different things that i offer like what
can you purchase for me what can you
learn more from me about and email is
just such an amazing way to do that i
always come back to thinking about how
social media was made to be social but
email was literally created like
originally created to sell things to
people and so especially i mean even if
i mean to be completely honest i think
no matter what kind of business or brand
that you have an email list can be so
beneficial when you use it in the right
way not only because it can't be taken
away from you you own your email email
as subscribers as opposed to you don't
own your instagram followers right
but an email list is also just so
incredible for you know no matter i
think if you're a product business no
matter if you're a service based
business no matter if you're an online
digital digital product business you
know if you have things you want to
offer and sell and you have clients that
you will sell to over and over again
then an email is going to be amazing for
you so the only like exception i would
say like i started my business as a
wedding photographer and i think it's a
little harder to use an email list in
that aspect because while there's ways
you can do it you usually only work with
a wedding client once right and so um
but even just think about other
photographers like family photographers
like you might hire the same family
photographer every single year or i
think about product-based businesses
if you make um macrame things for people
to buy an email can be an incredible way
to share you know tips and tricks for
you like decorating with your things or
using the things or even just running
sales and letting your people know about
it like people are expecting you to sell
an email and so it can be a really
amazing tool that you can use not only
to send out you know emails during those
live promotional periods but also you
can set up a lot of automations so
people are automatically getting pitch
different things and you're not having
you know be behind the scenes and
sending those things out all the time so
my email list for sure
is one of the like my most prized things
that i have in my business and the time
and money investment that i have made
into my email list and growing it has
been one of the best investments that i
could have made because especially when
you think about in the world of email
marketing um there's this general rule
that you'll convert meaning p you know
about three
meaning people will buy um about three
percent of the people on your email list
and it can be lower or higher but you
know three to five percent is pretty
typical so if you have 100 people on
your email list usually about three
people will purchase right and so
the even thing about that that means
that the larger your email is in general
the more your sales will grow which is
just such a cool thing to think about
and i do have a video on my youtube
channel all about how to set up flowdesk
within show it so show it is the website
program that elizabeth mccravy uses her
website templates on so if you're
already using one or you show it then
perfect um i have a video on using
flowdesk and flowdesk is the email list
management program that i use for my
business and i personally love it it's a
great program and it's great for
beginners it's very visual very easy
very intuitive and so there will be a
link to getting 50 off flow desk down
below as well we'll be sure to put all
the links down there but i do have a
video also on my youtube channel about
how to connect flow desk and show it and
like how to set up your email list and
get that going so if you will be sure to
link that little video down below too if
you want to jump over and watch that i
also get a lot of questions from you
guys about email list building and like
how to do it and all of that so i
definitely want to do that soon i just
don't know when that's going to happen
um or how soon it's gonna have him but
if there's any questions specifically
you have you want me to answer of course
feel free to drop them below but
those are my top five biggest
investments in my business just as a
recap number one paid education number
two my team number three my brand and
website number four masterminds and
number five my email list so i hope that
was really helpful and for you to see
just a little peek behind the things
that i've invested in the things that
have been totally worth it and if you're
not already of course be sure to like
this video subscribe to my channel all
those things we talk a lot about like
social media content creation video
marketing around here especially
instagram reels because that's what's
relevant right now and what is you know
going on when it comes to especially
instagram so we chat a lot about that so
if you want to learn more about those
types of things be sure to subscribe
because i upload a new video every
single tuesday at noon eastern standard
time so i don't want you to miss any of
them and i will see you guys in next
week's video bye guys
