hey how's it going you guys so I've been
real estate for almost 30 years now and
one of the most common questions I get
asked is Charlie how do you get your
real estate license not only that but
how do you get your license and then how
do you start working as a real estate
agent after that so in this video I want
to address these things and give you a
clearer picture of what you need to do
in order to get your real estate license
and also to become a successful real
estate agent so first off is what is a
real estate agent in what can they do
so a real estate agent is actually a
licensed professional that can help
arrange transactions between buyers and
sellers they put buyers and sellers
together it can actually act as
representatives for all the negotiations
I go on and trust me real estate
transactions are complicated as hell so
there is so much stuff to be done in
each and every transaction so yeah let's
go through some of the reasons why I
think getting a real estate license can
be very very smart so first up is being
a real estate agent is a very flexible
job what this pretty much means is you
get to set your own hours you don't need
to go into the office every day from
9:00 to 5:00 p.m. you put in however
much work you want to put in and pretty
much that's going to get you whatever
results you're gonna get so if you want
a job that can actually be very flexible
like that you know you can go on
vacation whenever you want you can
choose one to work you can choose one to
not work then this is actually I think
the perfect job for you you are able to
become their own boss and you can set
your own hours and do whatever you want
another really fun thing about becoming
a real estate agent is that you're
constantly doing different things as a
real estate agent you have so many hats
to fill no single day is alike some days
you might be prospecting all day trying
to find buyer and seller leaves some
days you might be meeting new people
networking door-knocking
cold calling other days you'll be
actually in the field doing work you can
be at a home inspection you can be
showing homes to a buyer you could be
going on listing present
you know every single day is going to be
a little bit different so if you value a
job where you know not every day is the
same then this is a great great
opportunity for you another Pro is that
it is very easy to get your license like
we're talking for most people you can
get your license in about three months
of course so with it being so easy to
get your license that also means that
everyone is going to have learned
license and we'll talk more about the
cons of getting your license later on
but just now there are sub when you are
a real estate agent you can pretty much
get guaranteed business through your
friends and through your family as long
as you are a nice person and you're not
a complete like shitty realtor then your
family and your friends will likely use
you when it comes to time to either
purchase a house or sell their existing
house it is also extremely useful for
when you're buying and selling your own
properties let's say you have a property
that you want to sell you can actually
sell it yourself not have to pay that
commission to another realtor
and you'll save some money that way also
when you are buying a home for yourself
you can represent yourself as the buyer
this allows you to take that commission
which is generally between 2.5 and 3%
and use that as a closing cost for
debate or perhaps use it to negotiate
the purchase price down there are lots
of ways that you can benefit from having
your own license for doing your own
deals and especially if you're going to
be doing a lot of real estate investing
a lot of buying or purchasing or selling
then you know you might as well do it
yourself I personally got my real estate
license to buy my own place because I
knew I could just take that Commission
and use part of it to help renovate the
house and obviously when you're taking
the class you're learning a ton of stuff
it's all useful information to have if
you want to become a real estate
investor in the future as a real estate
agent you also get to meet a lot of
people that you normally would not get
to meet and you get to see a lot of
awesome homes that you probably would
not get to see normally and by becoming
a real estate agent you are your own
boss and you put
have your own company you are working
for yourself right this means that you
can actually take a lot of tax
there are many business expenses that
you can write off on your own taxes
which is going to save you a lot of
money come tax season
for example you can write off your car
you can write off any business expense
such as business meals printing ink gas
there are so many things that you can
write off that reduce your taxable
income and help you save a lot of money
during tax season overall real estate is
the perfect job if you like helping
people if you like real estate itself
and if you love building relationships
now sorry guys with anything good
there's of course some downsides and I
want to make sure that we go into these
downsides to just really make sure you
are on the right track if you want to
get your real estate license from not it
is important to also look at the
downsides now like I briefly mentioned
before since it's so easy for people to
get their real estate license that means
anyone can do it and that also means
there are a ton of real estate agents
out there a ton of real estate agents
means there is a lot of competition as a
result getting actual clients and
closing deals can be very sporadic
especially at the start of your career
when you first begin expect your income
to be all over the place some months you
might make $0 some months you might make
a lot of money it's gonna really
fluctuate and until you get a steady
flow of business which is typically
after a few years or so in the field
then making a steady income is probably
not going to be possible and everyone's
heard the stats most real estate agents
fail within their first year this is
true because a lot of real estate agents
drop whatever they're doing and focus
solely on becoming a real estate agent
this means they have no other income
coming in and one you don't have a
Rolodex of clients it's gonna be really
hard to get clients for this first six
months first year so after they don't
sell a house in those few months or a
year they quit they go back to their
and they just kind of forget about the
whole real estate thing that's why I
think personally it's smart to having a
normal job or normal other activities
that you're working on while pursuing
real estate if your real estate business
explodes if you're seeing that it's
doing well and is on track to becoming a
main source of income then you can
slowly stop doing your other jobs and
focus on real estate then typically most
jobs are 4050 hours per week right that
leaves you with a lot of time to work on
real estate in your free time you can do
real estate on Saturdays and Sundays you
can prospect after you get home from
work if there's a will there's a way
another thing that really sucks about
real estate is that it can be very
stressful a lot of things are out of
your control and it can be really
frustrating when something goes wrong
and you lose a deal as a result these
are normally be largest transactions
purchases that your clients will ever
make in their lifetime so a lot is
riding on your knowledge and expertise
so now that we've gone into both the
pros and the cons of getting your real
estate license let's dive into how you
actually get the license itself the
first thing you need to do is take a
real estate salespersons course now this
will be different for every state each
state has their own specific course that
is required the amount of hours that's
needed so what I would do is go on
google look up your state and then a
real estate salesperson course there
going to be a ton of results so here in
California the Department of real estate
requires 135 hours of class time and
this is split between three separate
courses each being 45 hours you can
choose to take an in-person classroom
course or you can also choose to do your
course completely online so an in-person
course is generally gonna cost a bit
more money but you're gonna have an
actual live instructor and you're going
to be held more accountable you have to
actually go into a classroom drive there
and that means you're gonna be held more
accountable you're gonna have classmates
you're gonna have people around you that
you can bounce ideas off of so
this can be a great way to take your
course if you're very very serious if
you want to learn the best and you can
actually afford to spend more money but
of course it's annoying because you have
to actually go into a classroom every
certain day from let's say like 5:00
until 9:00 p.m. or something so for a
lot of people this is too much of a
hassle and they actually just go with an
online course and that's actually what I
did I took my real-estate course online
through real estate Express which I very
much recommend an online class you can
pretty much work on it whenever you want
at your own pace so let's say you have a
few free hours during the day you can
work on it then or let's say you're on a
long commute you can work on it then
it's a lot more flexible than having to
go in person to a classroom and in my
opinion it's a lot easier the class
basically consists of a bunch of slides
where you read through the information
take notes and at the end of each
chapter there are little quizzes that
you have to complete and pass and at the
end of every course you take a final
exam and when you pass that final exam
you get a certificate of completion for
that course I found that real estate
Express was the cheapest option and was
the most easy to complete I've
recommended so many of my friends to use
this platform and they've all been very
happy with it so I actually put a link
in the description below they always run
sales and the total cost of the class is
gonna be under $100 so it is extremely
affordable after you finish your real
estate course and pass the final exam
you'll actually be able to fill out an
application and mail it in to your
state's real estate department they'll
take them about one month to process the
application and during that time I
recommend looking at as many testing
questions as you can
in order to study for the actual state
exam once your application goes through
you can schedule a test date and then
you go in and pass the test it's not too
hard here in California you just need a
70% to pass the test as long as you
actually read the information and you
did some study questions to prepare
yourself for the test you should have no
after that you'll need to hang your
license with a brokerage and this is
just the rule you can't work as a sales
person without being affiliated with a
real estate brokerage from there you'll
probably have to join the National
Association of Realtors and from there
you get MLS access now to get your start
in real estate there are a few things
that you can do
the first being joining a team or
becoming a an assistant to a top
producer in your area this is a more
guided introduction to becoming an agent
and while you won't make as much money
you're gonna have a lot of experience
working for them if you want to make the
most money actually join a brokerage and
just work as a salesperson you'll want
to find a local brokerage that can
actually train and mentor you to be
honest most of the information found in
the real estate course it's not really
going to help you out much in the field
so that's why it's really important to
find a broker or a mentor that can train
you on your first deal if you're in
check out my own brokerage I have my own
100% commission real estate brokerage we
pay agents of 100% we have training we
have mentorships we have technology we
have marketing materials send me a DM if
you're interested in joining the team
because we are always looking to hire
and yes 100% means you get 100% of your
commission so yeah that's pretty much
all the basic first steps we went
through the pros and cons you went
through the sort of process in order to
take your course to take the exam and
hang your license with a broker can you
become successful part-time yes that's
how I became successful I started
part-time and gradually ease my way into
it it's definitely the safer way it's
probably a little bit easier to become
very successful if you put in your full
attention but that means it's also very
possible for you to lose all your money
and not be able to pay your bills so you
really need to see what works for your
situation getting clients is the hardest
part about real estate there are so many
agents out there there's so much
competition that finding clients is very
hard so you'll be
prospecting a lot you need to run ads
you need to door not cold call you need
to not become an invisible agent which
means let your sphere of influence know
that you're an agent let all your
friends family everyone they know should
know that you are an agent and what you
want to do is you want to be top of mind
when they think about real estate almost
everyone knows at least one realistic
agent so you want to be that first name
that pops up in their minds when they're
thinking hey I should sell my house or
okay I want to move somewhere then
they'll think of you and they'll call
you one really good way to get started
is actually focusing on rentals not too
many people like doing rentals because
you don't make a lot of Commission but
it is a good way to meet a lot of people
you'll meet many people and create
relationships and you know most people
that rent will eventually buy later on
so yeah if you want to get into real
get started today it doesn't take too
long it doesn't cost a lot of money to
get your real estate license the courses
are all very cheap especially if you do
online and if you're looking for a
broker in California make sure to hit me
up I'll give you some free study
materials some free study exam questions
to really help you pass the test on your
first try all right I'll see you guys in
the next video thanks so much for
if you liked the video make sure to hit
that like button and also subscribe to
my channel if you want to see more
videos just like this
