in this video I want to share with you
seven memorization techniques to help
you learn your lines faster recently I
had a five-page audition that I had to
do the next day and these are the
memorization techniques that I used
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
in to the film and television industry
my name is Kurt you hey if you haven't
already you definitely want to subscribe
to this channel to get more videos on
acting auditioning and career advice
every single week today we are talking
about memorization techniques
specifically how to memorize your lines
fast seven different ways now these are
the memorization techniques that I use
for my auditions I don't use all seven
every single time I might do one and if
that's not working I'll try another if
that's not working I'll try another if I
have a big audition like the five page
audition I mentioned earlier then I will
use all seven of these techniques to
really drill it into my head so let's
get started the first technique is to
transcribe the lines by writing it down
on a piece of paper so let's say these
are my audition sites right here and
what I will do is I'll grab a notebook
or just a blank piece of paper or
something and we're just gonna go
through this is a page and a half
audition but we're just go through the
first line my first line here is a few
years ago I was in London for work so
what I would do here is I would read
these this line out loud while writing
it down onto my notebook so a few years
ago I was in London for work alright I'm
not gonna make you watch me write write
down and transcribe this whole this
whole piece of paper that'd be a pretty
boring video right but I just wanted you
to see how long that took just for that
one sentence when you read through a
script we read a lot faster than we
write so when we actually write
something down it forces us to slow down
so when I wrote out that sentence it
forced me to spend more time with each
and every word and when you go through
the entire script that way let's say it
was this audition I would have to do
this for this whole page and a half
right so I would be spending a lot more
then I would be if I were just reading
through the lines without doing any
reading what I found and I don't know
the science behind it or the the
psychology behind this but what I found
is how this works for me is that when
I'm reading it out loud and I'm writing
it all down it just helps me internalize
it it helps me kind of it just helps my
body in my brain absorb all of this the
second memorization technique is to
reduce every single word in the script
down to its first letter only I actually
learned this technique on set when I saw
two other actors using it to memorize
their lines in fact Academy Award winner
Allison Janney has talked about using
this exact technique for her process so
hey if it works for an Oscar winner it's
gonna work for me right so let me tell
you what this is again let's use the
same script the first line is a few
years ago I was in London for work what
you would do is you would write down in
the margins the first letter of each
word keeping all capitalization and
punctuation so a few years ago I was in
London for work becomes a F Y a comma i
W I L you period
how does this work let's talk about that
as you're memorizing the script you're
first gonna be reading the actual words
that are written right once you get to
the point where you have it maybe about
halfway memorized where you're not
completely off book yet but you also
have the gist of it and you think you
got a good idea of what's written at
that point you can actually cover up the
actual words that are written and just
go by the first letter of each word now
we only did that first sentence but like
before you would do this for the entire
audition script if you covered up the
actual lines and you just start looking
at the first letter of each word what
you'll find is you would be able to use
just those letters to cue your brain to
remember exactly what was written it's
really cool how this works what it's
doing is that you're slowly
transitioning from the process
of needing all of the script to needing
just the first letter of each word to
the final step of not needing anything
to help you learn the lines the third
way to memorize lines and this is
actually my favorite it's the way that I
feel like personally works best for me
and that is to rehearse with another
person giving the script to somebody
else and having them rehearse the lines
back and forth with you I feel like
really helps you now rehearse the actual
scene and not just the lines now you're
able to hear what their responses are to
what you're saying and you get an idea
of what you are responding to this
really helps because you're not just
practicing the words anymore you're also
practicing the intent and the
motivations and the relationships that's
happening in this scene you also get an
idea of how the conversation flows and
the rhythm of the conversation when
you're saying the words back and forth
with another person that's that's a lot
harder to do when you're just reading
the lines off the page by yourself all
right before we move on I think it's
important to mention that auditioning
isn't just a memorization contest right
we do have to understand what objectives
are and motivations are and
relationships are and really understand
how to tell that whole story now if
you're interested in learning my 10 step
audition preparation process that's
helped me book many movies and
television shows then I've created a
free audit that you can get by clicking
that car that's popping up right now all
right let's move on
so the fourth technique that I use to
help me memorize my lines is to record
and rehearse so I will use a little
handy-dandy voice recorder like this you
can see my screen is cracked because
I've used this guy for many many years
now but I'll record all of the opposite
lines from the script onto here and then
I'll use this basically as my scene
so I'll do something like this when I
don't have another person to rehearse
with and I'll record for instance line
by line and then I'll push play for the
first line that's in the script of the
other character I'll pause it to say my
and then just go like that back and
forth all the way down through the
entire audition script I find that this
is really helpful because I don't have
to have another person like I said with
me to rehearse and I can do this when
I'm doing anything I could be out
walking my dog and doing this I'll go be
driving around town and all and I'll use
this now you may be wondering why I use
a little recorder like this and not just
the voice recorder app on my phone and
the reason is the phone is a touchscreen
and it doesn't have a physical button
that I can play and pause with and the
reason why I don't like that is because
I have to look at the screen to see
where when I'm pushing play and when I'm
pushing pause and that doesn't allow me
to have this down by my side or
something like that whereas with this
because I can feel where the buttons are
I can be like I said walking my dog and
just having this swinging down by my
side and not have to look at where I'm
pressing to push play and pause every
single time so having a little recorder
like this has been really really
beneficial techniques number five and
six kind of go together five is to run
through my lines the last thing I do
right before I go to sleep and six is to
run through my lines the first thing I
do right when I wake up so let me
explain when I say the last thing I do
before I go to sleep it's not the last
thing I do before I get ready for bed no
it's the very last thing that I do
before I close my eyes and actually try
to go to sleep so here's what I'll do I
will put my audition sides on my
nightstand before I get ready for bed
and then I'll go do whatever I need to
do brush my teeth get changed in
everything and then turn off the lights
and now the only light that's on is the
light on my nightstand and I'll get into
bed head on the pillow and I will read
through this about five or ten times
my name is inigo montoya
you've given my father
and then I'll put it down on my
nightstand again turn off the light and
go to sleep it's the very last thing I
no more looking at my phone after that
so what I'm trying to do is to make sure
that my subconscious is thinking about
this and nothing else
when I finally slip into sleep and then
in the morning when I wake up it's gonna
be the first thing that I do when I wake
up again not the first thing that I do
after I get up but the first thing I do
when my eyes open and I'm still in bed
and I'm not trying to sleep anymore then
I'll just grab this from my nightstand
where I'd set it before and I will run
through this another five or ten times
it makes it so that it's the only thing
I've done for the last eight hours or so
if I get to sleep for eight hours which
I hardly get hardly ever get that much
but it's the only thing that I've done
for that period of time I've run through
these lines five or ten times right
before I went to bed and then as soon as
I wake up it's the first thing I do
again so I found doing this to be really
really effective when I do them together
the seventh and final memorization
technique that I'm going to share with
you today is to do an activity while
running the line so you're gonna do this
at the very end of your preparation
process after you've memorized it all
after you've gotten to the point where
you don't need to look at the script
anymore to say all the lines now you
want to get it to the point where
nothing's gonna throw you off you want
to get it to the point where you will
never be in a situation where you're in
the audition room and you're drawing a
blank you want to really solidify those
lines in your head so how do you do that
well the way that I like to do it is now
I like to add an activity now while I'm
rehearsing the scene so you're gonna
need a scene partner again and that
person is gonna be running the lines
with you and at this point you need to
also be doing something while running
those lines so instead of just sitting
across from them and saying the
and making sure you got it you gotta be
doing something else while doing that
and if you can do that if you can get
the lines right while focusing on
another task as well then you know
you've really internalized those lines
and you really know it and your activity
can be really it can be anything you
could be doing dishes
you could be sweeping the floor you can
be dribbling a basketball and shooting
hoops you could be just you could be
just tossing a tennis ball back and
forth on the wall and catching it but no
matter what it is it has to be something
that requires your concentration so if
you have to do this but you're also able
to carry on this conversation that is
gonna be the thing that really gets
those lines rock-solid inside you
because that's how we talk in real life
anyway right we're hardly ever just
talking to someone back and forth like
this we are almost always doing
something else we're walking and talking
at the same time so doing that will make
sure you got those lines down rock-solid
and you are ready to go into your
audition all right if you like this
video give it a thumbs up and let me
know down in the comments which
memorization technique you like the most
and if it wasn't one of the ones I
mentioned even better I would love to
hear what you are using remember to
subscribe to this channel if you haven't
already and until next time keep
practicing keep learning and I hope to
see you on set one day
