your headshot is your most important
marketing tool as an actor now I've seen
actors make all kinds of mistakes when
it comes to their headshots but today
we're going to talk about three headshot
mistakes that have nothing to do with
the actual photo these are three things
that if you're guilty of them you can
correct them right now without having to
get new headshots taken
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
in to the film and television industry
my name is Kirk you super happy to be
spending some time with you today if you
haven't already please subscribe to this
channel to get more videos on acting
auditioning and career advice every week
also if you're interested in learning
about my audition process that has
helped me book over fifty movies and
television shows and I've created a free
audit sheet that you can download it
acting career center.com
the link is in the description below
alright let's talk about headshots we
all know that an actor's headshot is
very important and it's your first
impression to anyone in the industry now
because of that we want to make sure our
headshot is as professional as possible
and that we're not making any mistakes
that make us look like amateurs today I
want to share with you three headshot
mistakes that have nothing to do with
the actual photo and there are things
that you can correct right now without
having to get new headshots taken
mistake number one not naming the file
on your computer digital headshots are
used much more often than printed
headshots these days so it's important
that we pay attention to detail when it
comes to our digital headshot
specifically to the name of the file
let's say I'm a casting director or an
agent or anybody else in the industry
and I ask you to email me your headshot
well if you send me a file that's named
I am g40 five five seven jpg well that
doesn't tell me anything that doesn't
mean anything that's the name of the
file that you got back from the
photographer you need to change the name
of that file and make sure you don't
change it to something that's just
headshot jpg because that still doesn't
tell me anything if I download that to
my computer and I see a file named
headshot jpg I don't know whose headshot
that is so it's important that we rename
the file on our computer with our first
and last name I like to name my headshot
first name last name - headshot jpg that
way anybody that I send it to if they
to their computer anytime they look at
that file name they know exactly who it
belongs to
by the way this also applies to your
digital resume make sure that your
resume is not named something like
resume dot PDF
just like your digital headshot we need
to make sure the name of the file has
our first and last name in it so check
your computer right now make sure your
headshot and your resume both have your
first and last name in the name of the
file mistake number two not printing on
eight-by-ten photo paper now let's talk
about our physical headshots the
industry standard is to print our
headshots on 8 by 10 photo paper this is
different from regular printer paper
which is 8 and a half by 11 as you can
see the headshot paper is smaller it is
very important to print our headshots on
the correct size paper if we don't our
headshots are literally going to stick
out from the pile like a sore thumb and
this is going to make us look like we
don't know what we're doing it's gonna
make us look like amateurs remember that
the most important thing to convey to
agents and casting directors is our
professionalism that's because this is
an industry that's built on
relationships that are built on trust
agents and casting directors need to
know that they can trust you to go on to
a multi-million dollar movie set and
know what you're doing and be a
professional if we make even little
mistakes like printing our headshots on
the wrong size paper it conveys the
message that we don't know what we're
doing that that we are amateurs so this
may seem like a small detail it may seem
trivial but in an industry that is as
competitive as ours is these small
details make a huge difference so if you
have headshots that are printed on the
wrong size paper then tomorrow or the
next day go to the printers and make
sure to get those reprinted on 8 by 10
paper mistake number three forgetting to
bring headshots to auditions always all
I always bring a headshot to your
audition even if they say they don't
need it what's the harm and bringing it
anyway get in the habit of always
bringing a headshot to your audition and
look I get it
we're human we make mistakes and
sometimes we forget so how can we
guarantee that we will never forget a
headshot when we go to an audition well
we can keep a folder of headshots in our
cars at all times you never know when
you're gonna need it and it can be a
lifesaver so grab a folder put some
headshots inside it and go put it in
your car now you have guaranteed that
you will never be caught without a
headshot at your auditions well that's
it for this video if you liked it give
me a thumbs up if you haven't already
please subscribe to this channel and
make sure to go to acting career center
comm to download my free audition cheat
sheet until next time keep practicing
keep learning and I hope to see you on
set Monday I gotta go put this back my
