in this video we're going to talk about
why a demo reel is so important for
actors and what you should do if you
don't already have one let's get started
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry my
name is kurt yu thank you so much for
spending some time here with me today if
it's your first time here make sure to
subscribe to this channel to get more
videos on acting auditioning and career
advice now before we get started today i
just want to share a few updates i know
some of you like me to update you on
what projects i'm working on so i've had
kind of an exciting week of things
getting released that i've worked on
earlier this year so number one is uh
the show ordinary joe i worked on
episode four of it that just aired uh
this past monday on nbc i played dr cho
on that show and if you didn't get a
chance to catch it live you can watch it
on nbc.com right now or on peacocktv.com
so check that out and maybe i come back
in future episodes so you'll have to
tune in to find out in addition to
ordinary joe i also have a few projects
that i worked on just just dropped on
streaming networks number one is a show
called dopesick on hulu i also play a
doctor on that show and i'm in episode
three of that and then i also worked on
a show called just beyond that just came
out on disney plus and i play a school
teacher named mr hartsburg on episode
seven so those three oh one more thing
uh black widow right there just dropped
on disney plus for all subscribers for
free basically if you're subscribed to
disney plus you can now watch it without
without paying a premium fee so if you
want to watch me anywhere other than
youtube land you can check me out on
either ordinary joe or dopesick or just
beyond or black widow on any of those
platforms oh and if you remember in my
video where i talked about black widow i
said that three of my four scenes got
cut from the movie and you only got to
see me in one scene well guess what the
other three scenes made it into the
deleted scenes on disney plus so if you
go into the extras and you watch the
deleted scenes you may see me a few more
times so i didn't lie to you i did not
lie to you in that video all right let's
get into this video today which we are
going to be talking about
why a demo reel is so important for
actors and if you don't have a demo reel
what you should do so why even have a
demo reel right what is it used for well
in this industry casting directors
agents producers basically anybody in
the industry who makes decisions who can
give you an audition or who can cast you
in a project
they use demo reels to gauge an actor's
ability because
acting is an evidence-based profession
what i mean by that i mean that
we in the industry don't need to hear
people tell us that they're good actors
we want them to show us that they are
good actors
right because talk is cheap actions
speak louder than words all those
cliches right so instead of someone
saying oh i'm a really good actor i want
i want to be
i want an agent i'm a really good actor
or i want an audition i'm a really good
unless you can back it up with video
footage meaning a demo reel to show us
that you're a really good actor and when
i say us i'm kind of putting myself in
the on the other side of the camera on
the production side but i'm not i'm not
a producer i'm not an agent i'm not a
casting director but i'm kind of using
myself as if i were in their shoes what
are they asking for they want to see
evidence that you are a good actor they
want to see footage that you're a good
actor so
if you don't have anything to show
they're just going to move on they're
going to move on to the next person who
has a demo reel who can show them
i always compare this to like imagine
instead of an actor you were a graphic
right and you want a job
let's say create logos for companies
if i'm a company and i wanted to hire
someone as a graphic designer and you
volunteer your services you say hey
please hire me i'm a graphic designer
i'm really good at it and what am i
going to ask for i'm going to say well
please show me your some of your prior
work i'd love to see what other things
that you've designed to get an idea of
what your skills are and if i like what
you've done then i'll hire you to create
my logo
so that's the same thing for an actor
right when a casting director or an
is looking at you and you say i want
representation or i want an audition for
your project
they're going to say well show me some
of your prior work
so that we can decide whether or not we
want to represent you or if we want to
give you an audition for our project
because we want to see some of your
prior work but this is where there's
kind of a catch-22 of the industry a lot
of actors will say well if i need a demo
reel to get work and how do i create a
demo reel
if i can't get work right it's kind of a
weird situation and let's bring it back
to that graphic designer example
if you want to be a working graphic
designer and get hired by companies
and they want to see some of your
your work
what do you do well you should create it
on your own
before you get hired to be a
professional before you get someone to
pay you to do something
create your own stuff what would a
graphic designer do they would spend
hours by themselves at their desk making
their own graphics making their own
logos making whatever it is that they
want to do for companies to create a
portfolio to show them they're not
getting paid for it nobody's asking them
to do it but
if you do all that and then you create
this portfolio to show people to say i
would love to be a graphic designer
here's the work here's some examples of
work that i've done
then they get an idea of your abilities
as an artist
and they'll be more willing to hire you
take this back to acting
before anybody pays you to act before
offers you representation before anybody
gives you an audition
you can do the work yourself to create
projects to create things to put onto
your demo reel
and then you have something to show them
so what's what is something that you can
do to create something for your demo
reel well here's something that i did
when i was just starting out
i would get together with my friends
from acting class get together with them
outside of class on the weekends and
write shoot direct edit and do our own
short film make our we would make our
own short films we'd have a lot of fun
doing it plus at the end we now have
footage for all of us to put on our demo
reels that's an easy way to create your
own demo reel footage to now have
something to show anybody who asked for
you to show them your work to show them
an example of your acting ability and
that sounds pretty easy right getting
together with your friends and filming
something with yourself and look you
don't even have to have a fancy camera
just use your phone
either anybody's phone
use that because they all have hd
cameras these days and they're going to
be super high quality already film
something with your phone film a scene
with your friends
cut that together and create a demo reel
for yourself and look you don't even
have to go that far you could do
something even easier than that instead
of shooting a short film you could just
shoot a self tape audition
use a blank wall like i got behind me
frame it from mid-chest to the top of
your head and just shoot a scene like
this will show them your acting ability
again that's what they really want to
see they want to get an idea of what
your acting ability is and if you can
show them in a self tape type of video
that's perfect that's all you need when
you're just getting started now one
thing i do want to point out is i would
recommend that if you're going to do
something like this is to shoot a scene
instead of a monologue i've talked about
monologues in previous videos but if you
haven't seen that
what i would recommend is doing a scene
with a partner with a scene partner
where there is dialogue between two
people because
people in the industry especially people
that work in the film and television
side when they're watching your demo
and they're trying to get a gauge of
your acting abilities
they not only do they want to see you
but they also want to see you reacting
and when you do a monologue you don't
really get to show that reacting part of
it so that's why i recommend a scene
with multiple people so that you get to
talk and you also get to listen so when
you record a demo reel as a self tape or
a self tape as a demo rather when you
record a self tape as a demo reel do it
as a scene where you're the person on
camera you have a reader off camera
saying the other lines of the other
characters and then perform that scene
and it doesn't have to be long it only
has to be for a demo real purposes the
scene only has to be maybe 30 seconds to
a minute long
because all they need is a short little
piece uh to see your acting ability and
remember this is just how you get
started this isn't your demo reel for
the rest of your career but this is your
beginner demo reel to show people your
acting ability eventually you'll be
doing more stuff you'll be doing maybe a
student film or indie projects and you
might get better scenes than what you
created on your own in which case you
can replace it or add to it add to your
demo reel with your new footage and this
is something that you're gonna do
throughout your career you'll eventually
add to it and replace stuff with better
things my current demo reel is a
collection of projects that i've worked
on in the past few years here in atlanta
but that's only been the past few years
right it wasn't my demo reel in the
beginning in the beginning it was this
the stuff that i created with my friends
and then it was student films and indie
projects and maybe the first few things
i booked through my first agency in ohio
and then coming down to atlanta i put on
a few more projects and then i got rid
of those and added better projects that
i've worked on and so if you want to see
my current demo reel you can go to my
imdb page and it's right there i'll put
a link to it down in the description
below and now that you've created a demo
reel where should you put it so that
people can find it well number one i
would recommend putting it on your actor
website if you have one if not use your
casting profiles like actors access or
casting networks or backstage this is
these are the websites that industry
professionals will go to to check out
what you've done especially here in the
united states i know in other countries
they may use different websites so put
those on your casting websites in
whatever region that you're in
and then
i would also recommend putting it on
your imdb if you have imdb pro you can
put your photo up there you can put
videos up there so if you have an imdb
pro account put your demo reel on there
like i've done with mine otherwise you
could just simply put it on youtube
create a youtube link with your video
basically what you want whether it's a
website whether it's on
it's on your casting profiles or it's on
imdb or it's just a video on youtube
what you want is that
whenever somebody in the industry be it
an agent or casting director or producer
or director or even an acting coach or
anybody in this industry
if they ask for it you should be able to
give it to them right away you should be
able to say okay let me email you a link
or let me text you a link and then they
should be able to watch your demo demo
reel immediately this is the way to
get your stuff out there so that people
can see what your acting ability is okay
this is basically everything that i'm
telling you in this video of creating
your own demo reel whether it's doing it
with friends or just creating a
self tape style demo reel and then
putting it out on your website and all
this stuff all of this is within your
control you don't need an agent to do
this for you you don't need someone to
give you auditions to make you do this
this is you taking control of your own
career right we don't need the outside
world to push us along
this industry and this profession as an
actor really requires you to be
self-motivated and self-starting and get
yourself out there create your own
projects create your own demo reel put
it out there so that people can see you
so that in the future you'll get
representation you'll get auditions from
casting directors you'll get cast in
movies and tv shows this is the way to
start everything from the beginning some
people will ask can i get an agent if i
don't have a demo reel and the answer is
yeah it's possible but it's a heck of a
lot harder
you increase your chances dramatically
if you do have a demo reel
look i asked my agent this question
uh earlier this year maybe it was last
year i can't remember but recently i
asked my agent
how many submissions do you get every
month from actors looking for
representation and they told me hundreds
every single month they get hundreds of
actors contacting them asking for
representation and let's say half those
actors have demo reels and half don't
now if i'm an agent
why would i waste my time looking at the
submissions of the actors that don't
have demo reels right i'm trying to
represent actors
and in order to represent an actor i
have to know if you're good at acting if
you haven't shown me that
i don't want to waste my time if i have
all these other actors who did provide
videos of them acting so that i know
their level of acting ability well this
gives me much more to work with and
here's the other thing about demo reels
it's not just about getting the agent
you got to understand that a demo reel
is also used by the agent when they are
representing you to pitch you to casting
directors your agent will use your demo
reel and then show it to the casting
director and say hey here's my actor
they're really talented because check
out their demo reel
it shows right there
please give them an audition now if you
don't have a demo reel what does your
agent have to use to pitch you to a
casting director all they can say is hey
here's a head shot of my actor i promise
you they're really talented but i can't
show you so will you give them an
audition please and they're probably the
casting director then is less likely to
give an audition to that actor because
they have many other actors to choose
from that do have demo reels that they
can trust more because they are able to
see their acting ability hope that all
makes sense on why a demo reel is so
important throughout all stages of your
career okay i hope that was helpful if
you liked this video please give it a
thumbs up if you have any questions
leave them down in the comments below if
you haven't already subscribe to this
channel we're getting really close to
100 000 subscribers and until next time
keep practicing keep learning and i hope
to see you on set one day
