hey guys welcome to my channel in this
video I'm gonna be going over some very
important tips that you should be
considering when you are buying your
first house so I work in real estate and
I'm also a recent first-time homebuyer
myself this is the house that my sister
and I bought so you know these are just
some tips that I kind of learned
throughout the process that I wanted to
share with you guys so the first thing
that you really want to nail down is
your budget how much house can you
afford what you want to do is before the
whole house-hunting process even starts
you want to go and find a local mortgage
broker someone that can help you figure
out how much house you can actually
afford what they're gonna do is they're
gonna go through your income your
financials your cash reserves all that
stuff and they're gonna get you a
pre-approval letter with a certain
amount of money that they are able to
lend you this is really gonna factor
into your actual house-hunting because
if you can't borrow you know say like
you're only qualified for about like
five hundred thousand dollars then like
obviously you can't go hunting for those
really expensive homes you have to stay
within your price range
now this pre-approval letter is really
important because it's gonna make your
offers that you submit on homes that you
like it's gonna make those offers a lot
stronger these days you pretty much have
to have a pre-approval letter otherwise
the seller is not going to take you
seriously the biggest risk for a seller
is to actually try and sell their home
to someone that actually can't afford it
so if that happens they are taking their
home off the market wasting a lot of
time and in the end they have to put it
back on the market and it doesn't look
too good for their listing that's why
having a strong pre-approval letter that
you get from a local mortgage broker is
gonna be super important when it comes
to submitting those offers also keep in
mind that you're gonna need money to
furnish the place to fix things that
might break unexpectedly there are tons
of expenses related to home ownership
that many people don't think about
personally our water heater just like
stopped working Wilson
so we had to go out and pay for someone
to install a brand-new water heater and
that was about nine hundred fifty
dollars so yeah make sure you have some
money saved up beyond that actual
purchase price of the home because
they're also gonna be closing costs and
loan costs and that's gonna add up to no
good chunk of money number two is to
make sure that your credit score is in
the 700s at least now most people buy
their homes with their significant other
so one important thing to note is that
the lenders only look at the credit
score of the person with the lower
credit score so let's say that you have
a credit score of 700 but your
significant other has a credit score of
600 they're gonna actually only look at
that 600 credit score when determining
your interest rate the higher your score
the lower an interest rate that they are
going to be able to offer you for most
lenders as long as you have above a 740
you're gonna get the best rate possible
if you get down between 720 and 740 then
your rates can generally be about 0.125
percent higher as your credit score gets
lower and lower that means that your
interest rate it's gonna get higher and
higher and that's gonna add a lot of
interest payments to your overall loan
for the next 30 years it can add between
thousands tens of thousands even
hundreds of thousands of dollars
depending on your loan size and that's
why it's so important to get your
current score sorted out before you
start buying a home number three is that
you want to take your time finding the
house so most people that buy their
first house will live there generally
between three and eight years that's
definitely a long time so that's why
it's important to choose wisely but you
also need to consider that it's probably
not going to be your forever home so
don't get too strung up on the details
one of the most important things that
you need to consider when choosing a
house is the potential resale value in
the future so look at that neighborhood
do you think that neighborhoods is doing
well if it's gonna go up or not and how
easy is it going to be to sell this
house later on be more like cookie
hgtv ish the houses the easier it's
gonna be able to sell later on and
that's just because more people like
this type of style so you're gonna have
a bigger pool of potential buyers later
on be more customized the house the
harder it is to sell in the future you
want to make sure that it's a good deal
so have your Realtor run some comps on
the similar properties in that
neighborhood to see if that price that
you're gonna offer is a good one
you definitely don't want to be
overpaying for properties because you
know you're spending more money and and
who wants that look at the features the
amenities B backyard just make sure that
it's a house that you are gonna be happy
calling home and if there are some
needed renovations then make sure you
budget for those as well some people
love a home that requires some work
because it allows them to customize it a
little bit but you know of course it
takes a lot of work to do those
renovations and some people just prefer
a very turnkey house number four is to
work with a good buyer's agent now the
buyer's agent is paid for by the seller
so it really is in your favor to have
someone that's negotiating for you who
can help you fill out those forms
negotiate for a better price for repairs
it's just a very complicated process
that most people don't have too much
knowledge about they're also a really
great resource they know a ton of
mortgage brokers inspectors and people
that can make your house purchase go
smoothly so always ask them if they have
any recommendations on people to use
because your real estate agent is gonna
have a lot of connections number five is
to actually research the home buying
process by yourself the more that you
know about the home buying process be
more comfortable you're gonna be and the
more likely the whole process is gonna
go smoothly there are so many free
resources out there from YouTube to
forums where you can learn a ton of
information about the whole process all
for free
comment below or DME if you want some
really valuable resources and I can send
you those buying a house is a real
exciting time but you also need to be
aware of the possible things that could
go wrong so the more people that you
have helping you mentoring you and these
are the professionals that you should
hire to guide you along this home buying
process the smoother it's going to go
and the better of a deal you're gonna
get it is way too much to handle all
this by yourself unless you have
previous experience which I assume most
first-time homebuyers don't have so yeah
I hope you guys learned something from
these five tips these are the things
that my sister and I went through as we
were buying this property so I hope that
they can help you out and buying your
own first property as well thanks you
guys for watching make sure to hit that
like button if you like this video and
then also if you want to subscribe to my
channel I make a lot of videos about a
real estate about personal finance
entrepreneurship and investing I'll see
you guys next time
