hey how you doing huh sorry I'm late I'm
usually like super reliable so don't get
the wrong impression sorry I didn't get
a chance to look at this last night can
you just give me a minute okay so I'm
gonna walk into frame and then I'm gonna
sit on my first line and I'm gonna stand
up on my third line so if you could just
kind of follow me with the camera I'd be
awesome right yeah trying to save paper
so on
oh it's on the back well trust me it's
pretty impressive
so I'm I'm more like Steven Seagal's
character in the movie underseas where
he's this former Navy SEAL or is it more
like the movie hard to kill where
Stevens called this no-nonsense cop type
of guy and then I'm going to I'm gonna
walk and exit out of frame on this side
and then I'm gonna walk kind of around
you and come back in a frame this way so
it kind of shows it looks like time pass
okay I'm ready I can't find Brandon
anywhere where do you think he could
have gone okay yeah oh I can't find
Brandon anywhere where do where do you
think he could have gone I can't find
Brandon anywhere where do you think he
could have gone so then if you could do
like a like a slow push in for dramatic
effect at the end that'd be awesome and
then if you go closer and closer to my
right eye and then give you a thumbs up
right next to and then I could squeeze
out like a single tear so maybe I'm like
a guy out for revenge like Steven Seagal
in urban justice
yeah like Steven Seagal's character in
the Patriot No mr. president Ron oh I
Brandon anywhere and then if you could
like get up on the chair and like film
me from like this direction as I lie on
the ground and and have my existential
crisis and now listen here y'all I can't
find Brandon anyway trying to show you
my acting range yeah yeah like out for a
kill where Steven Seagal was a
university professor just just be
yourself okay be myself yeah you're on a
reality show rather than movie like the
show Steven Seagal law man can I like
maybe take my shirt off to make it more
of a manly death okay what like maybe
Mike my hot wife comes and kisses me
right before my last breath and then I'm
gonna like stand still right here and
you run around me really fast and do
this cool 360 shot right now
what do you mean no not doing it I
thought you were supposed to be on my
side Kelly what are you doing
thank you and again don't be so
overdramatic what my character doesn't
die per se no he have to die okay how
about this how about this what if the
president dies huh
but because I'm the closest one to him
when he dies that I become the president
anymore like are those like sentence
tone though I mean if I do a good enough
job you'll like change the shoot dates
just suit my schedule right we oh you're
you're welcome so I see you at the
callback what yeah whatever this movie's
gonna suck anyway probably don't even
have any baby famous playing the lead
