in this video I want to show you an
example of how I answer that dreaded
tell me about yourself question and an
audition let's get to it
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry my
name is Kurt you thank you so much for
joining me here today if you haven't
already you definitely want to subscribe
to this channel to get more videos on
acting auditioning and career advice
every single week as a working actor in
this industry my goal is to help you
achieve your goals and if you are
interested in learning my 10 step
audition preparation process that has
helped me book over 50 movies and
television shows then I've created a
free audit cheat sheet that you can
download right now by clicking that
little pop-up right there ok let's talk
about the topic for today the tell me
about yourself question is most commonly
asked in commercial auditions so way
back in 2015 I published a video titled
how to answer the dreaded tell me about
yourself it was one of the first videos
I ever uploaded and to this day it's
been the most popular video on this
channel so in that old video I explained
how to answer the question but I never
gave an example so in this video I want
to show you an example of how I would
respond to the question in my answer
you're gonna see me talk about my dog
now anytime I get asked that tell me
about yourself question or a variation
of it I always try to find a way to
steer my answer towards talking about my
dog now the reason I do that is because
I know that any time I talk about her it
brings a smile to my face and I I just
get excited to talk about her so you
might be asking now well the question
was tell me about yourself it wasn't
tell me about your dog well guess what
it doesn't matter
the reason they asked this question
isn't to hear you recite facts about
the reason they asked this question is
to see your personality and to see how
your personality looks on camera it's
not about what you say it's about how
you say it that's why I like to talk
about my dog and that's why you should
find something that brings a smile to
your face and brings out your
personality because the last thing you
want to happen is to look boring and
uninterested on
so let's take a look at my answer right
now and when it's done
I want to point out two more things that
I did that are really important
I've lived in Atlanta for a few years
now I actually moved down here from Ohio
back in 2016 just me and my dog tofu the
first place I lived in Atlanta was in
Kennesaw right next to the Kennesaw
Mountain Battlefield Park and I used to
take my dog there all the time to hike
the mountain and when I tell people that
they think that my dogs a pretty big dog
no tofu is about four and a half pounds
she's tiny any time we'd go to Kennesaw
Mountain people would be like oh my gosh
this little dog is gonna hike all the
way up the mountain oh yeah you bet she
actually drags me up the mountain just
barking it all the big dogs along the
way like she owns the place so that's a
little bit about me and about my dog
tofu so that was it pretty short and
simple but as you saw I was smiling
throughout most of it and I was really
excited to be talking about something I
really cared about now I want to point
out two more things that I did in that
example that are really important one I
told a story as actors we are
storytellers whether it's a movie a
television show or even a commercial our
job is to help tell a story to the
audience so if you can show that you can
tell an engaging story then the people
making the casting decisions are much
more likely to consider hiring you to
help tell their story - I didn't talk
about acting when they asked you tell me
about yourself at an audition try not to
talk about acting as part of your answer
they already know that you're an actor
plus half the other actors coming in to
audition for the role are gonna talk
about acting as part of their answer so
you don't want to blend in with a crowd
so come up with something unique that'll
help you stand out hey let's have some
fun down in the comments below let me
know how you would answer tell me about
yourself at an audition and while you're
doing that I want to introduce you to
the star of today's video my dog tofu
this is tofu
what are you gonna do you're on camera
once you tell everybody about yourself
that's right okay that's it for this
video if you liked it give it a thumbs
up and don't forget to subscribe if you
haven't already and if you're a newer
actor who wants to break into the film
and television industry then you
definitely want to check out this next
video right here where I talk about the
12 steps every actor should take to
jumpstart their career alright until
next time keep practicing keep learning
and I hope to see you on set one day
