if you're trying to get into better
shape or you're trying to eat healthier
and live a healthier lifestyle it can be
difficult when you have an irregular
schedule like a lot of actors do it's
harder to build those routines and build
those habits when you don't have the
typical nine-to-five job to build those
schedules around that's why I recently
interviewed my friend Tyler Buckingham
who is an actor and a personal trainer
so that he could help us learn how to
incorporate health and fitness into our
weird actor lifestyles
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry my
name is Kurt you thank you so much for
joining me today if you haven't already
you definitely want to subscribe to this
channel to get more videos on acting
auditioning and career advice every
single week in today's video I interview
my friend Tyler Buckingham who is an
actor a personal trainer and the owner
of buckingham fitness I asked Tyler how
actors can incorporate healthier eating
habits and exercise into our weird and
irregular daily routines because actors
do have a regular schedule some days we
are at home all day some days we're on
set all day some days we're working our
survival jobs so how can we build an
actual health and fitness routine around
that type of schedule I learned a lot
talking to Tyler during this interview
and I think you will as well I've put
links to buckingham Fitness his website
as well as his youtube channel down in
the description below so make sure to
check those out and without any further
ado here is my interview with tyler
buckingham alright i am here with tyler
buckingham my friend an actor a writer a
producer director all kinds of stuff in
the filmmaking industry but also a
personal trainer and the owner of
buckingham fitness what's up Tyler how
you doing Kurt I am doing well thanks
for having me man it's good good to see
you virtually yeah it's good to see you
too and we've known each other for
almost four years now I want to say is
like do you remember where we met it was
at Sun truss Park
I believe Feldstein Paris was having a
Twitter lunch yeah and because that's
where I met Kellen and Jessica yeah we
did we met was it at Sunwest Park but we
definitely it was definitely a Twitter
lunch but I can't remember exactly which
one it was the battery or whatever there
was a restaurant that we met at yeah
yeah yeah
so so I think this video what I wanted
to talk about was specifically for
actors since you are a personal trainer
but you're also an actors
you understand what an actor's schedule
is like and whether you're working all
the time or if you're not working all
the time we still have like irregular
schedules we don't have like we're now
working like a nine-to-five job and it's
it's really hard then to fit sometimes
health and fitness into that type of
schedule I know you know if you really
want to do it you can do it but it's
just more difficult right and and what
we want to do is try to take some of
those obstacles out of the way to make
it easier when people so that's why I
really wanted to talk to you because
since you do know about the actor's
lifestyle and you are a personal trainer
you can help you know help people find
the time and find the ways to fit health
and fitness into their lives so before
we actually get into like the specifics
of it I just want to ask you about how
you started Buckingham Fitness and how
you you know started your journey as a
personal trainer yeah yeah you know I
grew up in a very athletic family where
we were always playing sports you know
whether my brother was traveling for
baseball or I was traveling for
basketball we just always were active
and I always enjoyed that my mom was a
health teacher my dad was a marathon
runner and so we just kind of grew up in
that the world of health and fitness but
it didn't really occur to me how
important it was until my freshman year
of college
I went to play football in basketball at
a small college and I got injured and
then I gained 45 pounds just and it was
like what just happened and how long you
need in one year in three or four months
I did disc in my back I tore my
hamstring and it broke my ischial
tuberosity so your your pelvis just like
this answering when answering tour took
the bone with it and then my discs
herniated and I was still eating all the
food that I wanted to because it was
something that never really crossed my
and next thing I knew you know my dad
and I were doing the dishes next to each
other and I couldn't even I couldn't fit
like I I was I was too big and that's
when it kind of clicked and I was like
okay I need to change something because
it was something that I didn't
personally like about myself and it was
from that point it became a goal of mine
and you know then I just became more
conscious of what I was eating when I
was eating how I was eating and it took
probably another eight months after the
injury to like lose a good portion of
the weight and then start running again
but I still didn't start buckingham
Fitness until well into my acting career
they got to a point where you know
sometimes you're really busy sometimes
you're not busy at all and it was like
okay what am I gonna do to fill that
time or better yet what am I gonna do to
have a little income and have it be
consistent and so I always worked at a
gym throughout my whole acting training
and everything because I just wanted a
free gym membership I was like you know
what I'll work on the weekends whatever
I'll get my time off if I have you know
a shoot or something on the weekends but
essentially it was just like I just
wanted a free gym membership I'll clean
some toilets and you know clean the
floors just let my gym be free and then
I was working at a snap fitness starting
in 2015 through 2018 and I had a couple
of the members just be like hey gee can
you train me I was like well I'm not you
know I'm not certified that's not what I
do you know because I didn't want to mix
job and career um you know I always
tried to make acting and everything you
know I wanted that to be the control and
always focusing on that and then this
just kind of kept popping up over here
so I was like you know what let's see if
it's a really big time commitment and it
takes me away from this and all of my
clients know that I'm in the TV film
industry so they know that if there's an
audition or set like they know and so I
really appreciate
my clients are really appreciate you
know the bucking and fitness community
that we've been able to kind of create
and so started doing it and I started to
to really enjoy it and just was able to
get a couple clients in the beginning
and then now now we're in quarantine so
it's like well tv/film we don't have a
start date necessarily hopefully soon
yeah but until then you know you gotta
keep the wheels turning so and where
we're at right now and even before the
quarantine you had already started
buckingham Fitness on the on the route
to going online and doing virtual
training and stuff like that right and
and then that's something that I think
was really smart for what you were
trying to do because like you said
thanks I wanna you don't want to get to
a point where you know you got app you
have acting work which is fantastic but
you don't want to rain just like peace
out on your clients right so to be able
to do both at the same time would would
be perfect ideal right and having that
flexibility so that you know I can be
gone in two a or two and then come back
hey let's pick up where we left off you
know with with those clients that train
of me in person or virtually you know
I'll give them stuff to do so that
they're not being left out of the loop
because and a lot of people don't know
this you can get a lot of really great
work with just your body you don't need
a full gym if you know how to use your
body and use it to its full potential so
yeah yeah well that's great that's great
stuff because that's the stuff that we
want to talk about today and how we help
actors with it so yeah the main the main
questions then are you know because as
we mentioned earlier actors have
irregular schedules and sometimes we had
to get up at 5 a.m. and other days you
don't have to get up til 2:00 in the
afternoon or whatever so right how can
we get some sort of routine and then
also fitting those workouts into our
schedule I think one of the questions is
you know
it'd have to be a long workout how once
what's a good amount of time to be
exercising for it to even be effective
does it have to be an hour two hours or
something like that right a lot of times
and there's always been this the stigma
of you have to be exhausted in a pile of
sweat absolutely sore all over your body
every single workout and it's just not
you know the body needs different
stimulus is or stimuli and then also you
have to be training towards a specific
goal and that's not to say that general
maintenance like going out and just kind
of moving the body around you know with
mobility and stuff even-even yoga
workouts you know that's not something
that I necessarily specialize and but
that's a lot more like routine mobility
there are versions of yoga that go into
more intense work but primarily with
weight training or fitness exercises a
lot of people are like well if I'm not
sore I didn't get a good workout or no
pain no gain
or all these all these things that are
just very much extreme you know a walk
is considered exercise walking is the
easiest simplest form of exercise
everybody should be doing it as long as
you know you're not in pain or unable to
do that you know walking is great and 30
minutes a day can be really beneficial
um even with so I have a 34:30 group
where we do these virtual classes for
just 30 minutes and these are workouts
that I coach along with and they're the
only workouts I'd do I'm sweating I'm
getting a great workout I feel it in
places that you know I might not focus
on if I'm always going to the gym and
always going to the squat rack or the
benchpress because you know you got to
get your gains and stuff and there's a
really just a lot that you can do with
your body
and so from for an actor's life you know
we don't know necessarily when we're
gonna have the freedom to heck of time
you know we might be very busy theater
we might be in a show a run of a show on
it's a TV set and we're a recurring
character you know we're gonna be on
hold for X amount of days or you're
always working and it might be something
that you really have to set aside some
time to make it happen and a lot of
times people think well if I don't have
an hour I can't do it it's like you can
get a great workout in 10 minutes you
know but at the end of the day it comes
down to what are my goals what am I
trying to get out of this workout is it
a cardio workout where you know I'm
running or jogging on the elliptical I'm
biking is it something where I'm doing a
lot more strength workouts and so I need
some dumbbells or I need to increase the
time under 10 that my body is under
tension you know there's a lot of
different varieties and if you don't
know necessarily what your goals are
which is why I mentioned earlier you
know maintenance days are really great
because if Kurt let's say you're gearing
up for a show or you're in a show and
you're like okay I'm kind of on hold but
I've got this big stunt scene coming up
or I've got this huge action scene and I
need to make sure that I'm good to go
for two three five eight hours you're
probably not gonna want to go all-out
the day before or the days prior because
your body needs to be in a position
where it's ready to perform on the day
so it really just depends on incide ly
that's that's the answer it depends you
know you're a runner you probably want
to run a little bit more if you want to
be a power lifter and lift more weights
should probably lift weights more and it
really just comes down to your goals so
as far as timing is concerned you know
you can get thirty minutes five six
maybe seven days a week as long as it's
you know there's a variety in there you
can get a lot of really great workouts
in a short amount of time and that's
three hours of your week there's a
hundred and sixty eight hours and the
week three hours I'm guessing that the
Netflix shows that most people are
or binging like no guilty but hey if I
take 10-15 minutes maybe 30 minutes I
can really get a great workout and
continue pushing towards my goals while
still getting my Netflix it yeah that's
three hours when people think about it
that way
three hours thread throughout the course
of a week sounds right very doable hey
let me jump in for a second if you're
enjoying this interview do me a solid
and give it a thumbs up all right let's
get back to it do you plan ahead where
you know exactly when you're working out
every single day of the week and if
there if you do know for instance that
you know Monday Wednesday and Friday if
I if this is my routine mhm
it'll work but this Tuesday and this
Thursday I have I have a job coming up
that I can't do how do you then do you
then factor that in and then and then
find out right time in each of those
days always always I mean as much as
possible you know we want to have our
routines whether it's with our sleep
whether it's with you know our fitness
or habits we want to be able to have as
much routine as possible however in the
actors lifestyle that's not always the
case and so and so for your example you
know Monday Wednesday Friday I know that
at 1 p.m.
I'm gonna be able to work out every
single day all of those days but Tuesday
Thursday kind of a toss-up so let's just
say you're on on a job and you're in the
honey wagon you might get called in you
might have to wait seven or eight hours
I think both of us have been there where
it's just like what I'm doing in here
and then other days you get to the honey
wagon and you go right to set they get
you on they get you off and your days
done so what I would recommend you know
in those situations is just work on
mobility you know if you're in the honey
wagon do a couple squats you know you
can sit down onto the bench stand back
up do three sets of ten three sets of
fifteen you know it's going to depend on
your fitness level on you know doing
some reverse lunges or some push ups
things like that where no you're not
gonna get the
overall stimulus of you know a real body
crusher but also physiologically we're
not in a position to hey let me get a
great workout in this you know closet
and then go onto set and be able to
perform the way that I need to and then
you know the director is gonna tell me
this and then craft he's gonna come out
with that food so you know I'm gonna go
get that and so it's just you know we
don't have to go intense like super
intense all the time sometimes just kind
of going through the motions and just
feeling and how the body is moving and
like really listening and being aware of
how our body moves and they have really
great benefits without stressing
ourselves so much that you know were
we're not in a position to better
ourselves the next day you know one of
the things that I've had this
conversation with a lot of people as
they feel like they always have to go to
failure well every time you go to
failure then it takes you that much
longer to recover so go just before
failure then your body isn't as taxed
you still got a really great training
stimulus but you're not as taxing you
don't have to recover as long so then
hey then I can train again and I have
recovered a little bit more now I can
train again then I can train again
because rest and recovery are essential
you know when when you're doing bicep
curls you're literally tearing the
muscle fibers and unless they were a
pair and recover they don't grow they
don't get better they don't get stronger
they don't become more resilient well
same with our body over our entire
bodies you know you have to have rest
and recovery which is why for the actors
and artists out there you know I really
empathize with a lot of you on asleep
sleep is our greatest form of rest and
recovery and sometimes we don't get to
determine when we get to sleep or how
much we get to sleep and so especially
during this quarantine time if you can
route routine routinize habitual eyes
your routinized I don't know maybe
that's a word if it's not Webster's what
up but if you can create that routine of
wait fall asleep at the same time wake
up at the same time
it's gonna have a physiological effect
throughout your entire body for mental
health sleep health your fitness health
your nutritional health it's just really
going to make things work on all
cylinders so yeah that definitely makes
sense and I know that it's it's been
something that I've worked on to try to
get to bed at a certain time because I'm
not the type of person that can sleep in
until noon I no matter what I wake up
early in the morning so if I go to sleep
late I know I'm not gonna get a lot of
sleep so like I have to force myself to
get to bed early to make sure I get
enough sleep and I like the idea of what
you're talking about if you do have a
long day on set or if you're rehearsing
for a play or something like that and
you just need to to move around you just
need to kind of get the blood flowing
you don't have to get a full workout in
plus it wouldn't really make sense like
you can you can you can walk out of the
honey wagon ready to do your seat
drenched in sweat completely soaked
through your wardrobe so you wouldn't be
able to do that anyway but it does make
sense so that you wouldn't just be
spending the full like however many
hours you're sitting there waiting just
like lying on the couch and and just
looking through lions so that that
totally makes sense yeah and so another
part of it we already talked about the
the actual exercising part of it and
obviously recover as well but then the
nutrition side of it too yeah so all of
this stuff obviously applies to everyone
not just actors but when we when we talk
about it from an actor's standpoint and
again the scheduling being kind of the
obstacle that that holds a lot of people
back because it's harder to kind of say
alright I'm gonna get three square meals
a day every single day and I know
exactly what I'm gonna be eating because
we don't have we don't have that
nine-to-five job so if we're leaving the
house at 5:00 a.m. one day and then the
other the next day we're home the entire
day and how do we keep how do we keep
ourselves away from you know just dry
driving by
yeah he's going and then going through
the fast food
Lane and we know in the days that were
on the days that we're working so how do
you kind of plan for that is it is it
meal planning is it whatever right well
at the end of the day regardless because
there's a lot of like nutrition camps
where they say this is the best or this
is the best this is at the end of the
day it has to be sustainable or the
person so whether we're talking about
actors are not your nutritional health
has to be sustainable for you you know
oh three day diets or three day three
days for a reason because knowin is
still on a three-day diet they do it for
three days and then they go back to you
know maybe what they were doing or they
transition into something else but at
the end of the day really it has to be
sustainable for you so Kurt you know
maybe you're following keto and that
works for you that's awesome that's what
works for you that would not personally
work for me I like my carbs so and and
there's and there's nothing wrong with
it that is what works for you so you
have to find that sustainability so when
it comes down to it you know just meal
planning help certainly but it does go
back to one of my goals am I trying to
lose weight so I'm more conscious of the
food that I'm eating am i trying to gain
weight so I'm more conscious of how much
I'm eating it really those goals I know
I keep preaching about it but it really
matters because if you don't know why
you are you know consuming a certain
food is there you know there are a lot
of people out there who are vegan and I
was vegan for some time it became a
thing that wasn't sustainable for me
anymore so I transitioned out of it but
there are a lot of vegans who you know
are very into the environment and by an
environmental health and this is saying
the sustainability of our animals and so
it's like hey that's awesome you know
that works for you great do that but
then if that is the case you know you
might go to a set that has lamb for for
lunch and it's like okay so what are you
gonna eat because you guys you need to
feel your body
and if meal planning is what works for
you great if going through the fast food
line and simply being aware of the food
that you're taking in because now now a
lot of places have their the calories up
on the board which is great really we
should be looking at the quality of the
foods you know so the less minimally or
the less processed foods or whole foods
are gonna be better for you they're
gonna be closer to the source of the
actual food itself so like when you know
you have an apple vs. cake both are very
high in carbohydrates both are very high
in sugars I'm pretty sure ninety percent
of the population is gonna know which
one is gonna be more healthy and more
beneficial from a full nutrient
standpoint and so you know if you're in
line though oh and it's been an
exhausting day and you feel like having
a piece of cake have the cake you know
that mental stress that psychological
stress can also have adverse effects
just like looking at the scale every day
you know I didn't lose weight today I
didn't lose weight and you just keep
seeing that every day that's that's
really demoralizing and it's hard to
sustain that so you know sustainability
again and if meal planning is something
where you take two hours out of your
sunday to prep for the week that's
that's great if you're an overnight
person so that every day at the end of
the night you pack your lunch for
tomorrow and this is the food I'm gonna
eat and you can stick to that awesome
you know that doesn't mean that you
might not go through the Starbucks
drive-through and grab the wrap of mocha
Tina latte venti I don't know I don't go
to Starbucks but maybe it's a day where
it's like hey I'm super stressed I think
I you know this is gonna help me out a
little bit cool it's again what you are
ingesting and consuming needs to be
sustainable for you you know your your
I'm gonna be doing the breads and the
carbs and if you're someone who loves
that stuff awesome let it work with your
goals and make sure it's something you
can sustain I think what you just said
about it it has to work for you is
something that I hope is gonna resonate
for a lot of actors because we hear that
in our careers all the time because just
like just like in acting just like in
acting there's nothing there's no one
direct path that works for everybody we
all have to find the the path and the
tools and the techniques and the classes
and everything that works yeah
specifically to each individual person
so that totally makes sense that it's
the same thing in fitness and health
right and debating back on that you know
people in Alaska and people in Ethiopia
they're not eating the same things
they're you know their food sources are
very different and then you have the
Mediterranean and then you've got you
know Southern America and it's like okay
so if all these people have evolved to
have these different life styles of
eating I like to call them lifestyles
not diets because you should be eating
for a lifetime or a lifestyle not just
for the three-day weekend and so if all
of these people have evolved and are
able like this you know paleo is very
much from from the earth if you will
whereas others you know I mean vegan
would be similar but they do have their
differences and it comes down to okay is
this sustainable for me is there are
certain things that I've tried like
being a vegetarian it didn't work for me
it didn't and so I am NOT a vegetarian
you know I yes it has to be sustainable
and all over the world people eat
differently but they can still have
really great health and primarily that
is the cause or that is the result of
eating really whole foods closer the
closer to the source you can be the
better from a nutrient density
standpoint and you know definitely enjoy
the foods that you eat you know it
eating should be treated as a privilege
not in obligation and a lot of times
people are like well I can't eat that I
because of this I can't do this because
of that it's like well maybe we change
it to I want to eat this because I want
this as opposed to weight loss think
about it as health gain and a lot of
times people you know people look at the
scale I'm sorry I'm going on a tangent
here but this raises and people look at
the scale like it like it has a value
and it's like this is some arbitrary
number that just says how much gravity's
effect is on your body now are there
certain health risks dependent upon that
weight sure and that's when you know
you'd want to go to a doctor or a health
care professional to really help you out
and understanding it but the as far as
and this is a quick quick sidebar BMI is
a terrible standardization because every
football player who's you know stacked
to twenty five six feet tall like really
in really great shape they're gonna be
overweight on the BMI scale I was 20
pounds ago I was overweight on the BMI
scale that was when I was probably my
strongest and so it's careful which
places you look for information from
because a lot of them can either a skew
the data be not show you the complete
data set see a scale has no intrinsic
value over you as a person and a lot of
people like MA and I and I'm very guilty
of this I have struggled with body
dysmorphia I have stretch marks I have
you know looked at scale on a daily
basis and it was more of a psychological
stressor than it was like an enjoyment
and so it goes back to sustainability
and I will continue preaching that
because if you cannot do it for you and
that doesn't mean that it doesn't come
with discipline and structure and things
around it but at the end of the day you
know if your goal is to run five miles
every single day
but you're only doing one and you're
pushing yourself to a potential injury
or fatigue or overall exhaustion that's
not sustainable and it's okay if you
don't set the bar super high I mean my
brother is a seven-time national
champion and triathlon and duathlon in a
two-time world champion and triathlons
you think I'm gonna go and compare my
running times to him I mean he's my
brother so I have to know like it
doesn't it doesn't make sense so you
know it's got to be sustainable for you
it's your journey and it needs to be
something that you want other people
like I can want all the best things for
my clients but if they don't implement
the actions just like in acting with
acting coaches hey I I want you to
succeed I want you to be that series
regular but if you're not going home and
doing the homework and practicing your
monologue practicing your accents
whatever it is it might not be in your
best interest
yeah and I think one of the other things
that you just mentioned I mean the whole
time about sustainability and also about
making sure you find the things that do
work for you and them if they don't work
not to beat yourself up about it right
because it's not it's not necessarily
your fault that it didn't work it's it's
something that may have worked for
somebody else but if it's not working
for you feel free to let it go and try
something else
and and not to find that not to you know
shame yourself for not having the
results that you're seeing in other
places right so oh I'm sorry no go ahead
well you mentioned results and it's you
know have you given yourself enough time
to see results people think we'll I ate
less food today
I should be 2 pounds less and it's like
doesn't necessarily work like that and
when you look at the science of it you
know you got a look at it along this
graph because if it took you 30 years to
get to this point and you're only
looking at one week I got bad news for
you you know you haven't given it enough
time and as someone who
suffers greatly from impatient itis it's
all my family calls it because we're so
impatient you know you got to slow down
and look at you know am I feeling better
am I more confident am i lifting more
weights is my overall like
psychologically am I am I just in a
better position to succeed because it's
all connected you know it's life is it
life as a giant wheel and if we have a
broken spoke but we're trying to just
crank through it it's probably not gonna
be in your best interest and so yeah you
got to find either a what works for you
or go to somebody that has the tools
that you're that you're seeking yeah so
and that's the perfect transition
because that's what I wanted to talk
about next so cool because people
sometimes need that extra bit of
motivation or if it's not motivation
they cuz sometimes just need that
information of how they what they can do
to best use their time to get a workout
in during the day or two to best get the
right nutrition that their body needs so
if they wanted to go to Tyler Buckingham
and Buckingham Fitness for help I know
you have something called your thirty
four thirty which you mentioned earlier
basically so let's let's talk about what
that is and how that's helping people
yeah so the thirty four thirty group is
a $30 per month virtual class we do six
classes each week for thirty minutes so
$30 for 30-minute workouts pretty pretty
straight to the point but what we look
at in this is using just bodyweight you
know I teach classes from there that's
that's the big set up but I show people
like hey this is how you can use your
body and just your body weight to create
adaptation to create a stimulus so that
your body does have a place to progress
from and into because if we're not
progressing just like with acting or
with our memorization with lines you
know if
we don't have that progress in that
steady increase in abilities you know
we're just gonna be stagnant and so what
the 3430 group does is it shows people
how to use their bodies from a
functional movement standpoint I am I am
very big on mobility and resiliency in
the body you know a lot of people have
come to me with injuries and in fact I'm
wearing my pain free performance
specialist certification shirt so I'm a
pain free performance specialist and we
cover the six foundational movement
patterns the squat and lunge push pull
and carry they're the six things that
the body every single body
biomechanically does on a daily basis I
push a door open I pull it towards me
eyes got to pick on my dogs Boop I
change to sit on a chair I am carrying
my groceries and I lunge you know to
catch a ball those are the things that
our body naturally does and a lot of the
times people are just worried about the
biceps people just focus on the biceps
so what this body weight class does is
really show hey you can get a really
great workout while enhancing your daily
activities because everything we do can
be replicated out in the real world now
some of the core stuff you might not
just drop and do a plank for no reason
but it does create you know resiliency
throughout your entire body and
strengthening and mobilizing the whole
of your body just like strengthening and
mobilizing the whole of your life from a
sustainability standpoint yeah that's
really cool because you're you're really
touching on a lot of the obstacles that
people have because you just showed you
you do the whole training right there in
your bedroom and you're showing that
people you know one they only need 30
minutes a day do they can do it at home
and three they don't need anything other
than their own bodies right use what you
got and that's and even when you know
clients are coming in
for four workouts we replicate movements
in the gym so that we're stronger in our
it doesn't and do we do some bicep curls
kind of sometimes we're really if that's
an aesthetic you're going for and you're
you know chris hemsworth preparing for
Thor he's doing some bicep curls for
sure but not everybody needs to look
like that so we need to strengthen and
mobilize and build a resiliency in our
in our bodies throughout our four
foundations and our foundational
movement patterns of the six that I just
mentioned and then you look at okay so
aesthetically do I like where I'm at in
certain areas perhaps I work out in this
area or or if I have pain if I have knee
pain you know that's a really common
thing that I see and something I
personally have dealt with that without
knowing how my body works and how its
supposed to function you know I'm able
to get out of pain faster I recover
faster and I'm able to get stronger and
I love the word resiliency so you're
gonna that's you know all of us people
were very resilient people and our body
should be the same way you know because
injuries aren't fun they're not I've
broken 22 bones I've separated his
shoulder blown out of knee the back
hamstring all those things and since
I've learned more about the body and how
it operates never been healthier I
haven't and that's just having an
awareness of how my body moves
throughout space but also how its
supposed to move from a biomechanical
standpoint that's all you've broken 22
bones more than I have so not gonna work
for me so the the 30 for 30 you you
mentioned is it's only a 30 minute a day
workout a lot of people will be thinking
oh I don't know is that really enough to
get into shape but you I think you
mentioned earlier that's the only
workout that you're doing right and
you're a personal trainer and you're
just doing a 30-minute workout it
yep well and that's and again it it goes
back to your goals like my goal right
now is not to you know push towards
sports performance if it was you know
with 30 minute minutes be enough it
could be but it would need to be more
specific than what I'm currently doing
you know with these classes I'm trying
to increase stability in my body I want
to be more mobile and I want to have
more strength and resiliency so we do a
lot of tempo work you know doing
push-ups that's great doing them slowly
that's a lot harder try three of them go
down for four seconds you'll see what
I'm talking about
and that's only 12 seconds of work but
you're gonna be like what's happening
with my arms and so you know yes but but
I'm also utilizing what I have and not
trying to I'm not used I don't use your
resistance but fans people just do
squats up and down up and down up and
down but if you hold a squat for 10
seconds your knees start shaking your
body starts shaking you're like what's
happening well your body is using itself
to its fullest capacity or at least in a
more complete way than what it's used to
and so that's how you build upon what
you already have
let's take me back to the wall sits in
high school gym class all right so that
really sounds like it would be
beneficial to a lot of people so if
anyone's watching and it's interested in
the 30 for 30 I'm gonna put a link to
your website down in the comments or in
the description of this video so they
can check it out you can really start it
at any time right it doesn't have to
start at the beginning of the month but
it would be good to start at the
beginning of them correct yes we're in
our fourth week now and there are a
bunch of people who can make the live
workouts which Monday through Friday 8
a.m. Saturday at 8:30 a.m. on total
times like 45 minutes with explanation
warm-up and everything but you can do
the workouts at any time you know if you
want to join now and start back at day
one go right ahead there's a private
link you can follow along you can just
look at the workout if you don't want
follow along if you don't want to hear
me talk all day which believe me I get
it I hear myself during these workouts
but if you want to just follow along the
world go and look at what movements what
you're supposed to do
again it's sustainability like if you
want to do one workout a week two three
all six of them cool but make sure
you're getting your rest and make sure
you're doing something that works for
and when it works for you because that's
and that's the nice thing about live
workouts yep you'll get that one-on-one
interaction or at least the group
setting interaction and I can see you
and give you some corrections if
necessary or you can watch it later and
like hey I'm doing this on my own time I
you know I've got some time in my honey
wagon maybe I just do the warm-up or
maybe I just do you know five minutes on
this so I don't get super sweaty or
maybe I just kind of move through it and
don't try and push myself too hard you
know it's it's your time use it well I
love that because it's something that's
available for everyone because they're I
know there's obviously there's gonna be
people who don't really want to be in
that group setting who really would
rather do it themselves and and because
you make the videos the recorded video
is available they can just follow along
themselves on the recorded versions but
then there's also people that don't want
that that class setting that want the
community of it to help them to move
forward and and with that you offer that
as well because they can just join in
live six days a week issue to do that
right so that that's awesome so again
I'm gonna put that link down in the
description so if they can if if they
want to find out about the 3430 they can
go to your website they can go to the
same website if they if they're
interested in just some personal
coaching and personal training on
fitness and health as well yeah yeah so
I do some consultations or goal-setting
strategies if it is something where you
want to work one-on-one I always want to
do a consultation first just first and
foremost to see for a good fit you know
yeah I've gotten this personal results
but you might not like the way I coach
no hard feelings it
they're some acting coaches some people
don't prescribe to that style or that's
not part of their tool belt and they
don't want to go that way so hey it's no
hard feelings and this at the very end
of the day not only tells me if I want
to invest my time in you but also if you
want to invest your time in and
furthermore in yourself because you know
acting coaches or teachers or personal
trainers nutrition coaches whatever
we're not babysitters we are people who
will give you the tools to succeed and
then together were a team and we go
towards it and we got to be there for
each other so you know awesome alright I
think I mean that's really all I wanted
to talk about today I think you shared a
lot of fantastic information that people
are gonna find helpful and the last
couple things I wanted to talk about
where our more acting related because
these are primarily for actors so since
you are an actor as well let's let's
kind of pivot more towards the acting
side of it or is there an acting
resource that you have found
particularly useful either recently or
you know in the past that you want to
share with everybody be it a book or a
you know or podcast YouTube channel
website or whatever right yeah so when
you when you when you said that the
first thing that popped into my mind was
this book by Harold Gus Caen called how
to stop acting I know of the book I've
never read it but I know of it it was it
was it was very early on in my
professional career here in Atlanta and
it was just one of those books that and
I heard these phrases said before but
the way that he verbalized it it just
clicked for me and it was like oh man
and just real quick the the biggest
thing that he talks about you know apart
from memorization because you gotta know
your lines at least that is my belief
gotta know your lines so you can please
the writer and the director and
obviously you have your improv
background but that writer is probably
gonna want you to say there were
I'm speaking as a writer I would like my
I would like my words um but he talked
about you know having this marble statue
and you chip away at what doesn't work
at what doesn't isn't necessary and then
you begin to build this character from
the quote unquote wrong choices but
there aren't any wrong choices there are
stronger choices than others or there
are ones that work more in alignment
with the director's vision and that's
you know perfect tie-in with Fitness's
there are no wrong choices there are no
wrong choices this yeah Numa works and
if the director likes you know a certain
way you set a line it's like well let's
keep doing that but until you have that
preparation to be flexible and malleable
and be this piece of clay maybe not so
rigid as a statue but this piece of clay
that the director can mold and you know
deliver that line ah
that's that has that sweet stuff yeah I
actually I saved that book in my like
Amazon favorites list and I just I've
just never bought it but then I recently
I saw that book at my photo studio
I'm non-pro has a copy of it at the end
for those to do so I think I'm gonna
steal it one day and just nice and read
it at home but I'll put a link to that
book down in this description as well
for people that are interested in it so
good man so my last letter my last
question is also about acting about more
about the acting career so you've been
doing this for a while you moved down to
Atlanta from Michigan Michigan to
Chattanooga to Atlanta yep and so what
what is one of the biggest lessons that
you've learned in your career as an
actor be it on the technique side or
just in the business side of things
right well when we first met I believe I
had long hair okay
leave ended up having hair down here and
I see those pictures and I was like man
what happened
but there was and I think this is more
from a from a lesson standpoint there
was a role that I was up for that I
ended up being offered and then they
said you know are you okay with X Y &amp; Z
that wasn't a part of the audition it
wasn't a part of the I mean it was in
the script but it was talked about not
visually going to be a happening and
then they said hey these things are
gonna happen and so it was one of those
like you can have the role but you also
have to have this and it got to a point
where internally I was not okay with it
I you know and on one hand it's like
I've been auditioning for this for a
month massive star power massive you
know billing for me on this side I'm
like internally I'm fighting myself and
one morning I woke up and became sick
because it was stressing me out
so much and I ended up turning down the
role because and it ended up with me
I've never auditioned for that casting
director in three years because of it I
you know it was a whole thing in my my
agents I talked about it they had my
back which I greatly appreciated but
trust your gut like you know if if
there's something wrong on a set or you
don't feel safe or enjoying me wrong it
could be nerves but at the same time man
a feeling like that and I don't think
the movie has come out but I don't think
I've seen much about it
but for me for the way I want to run my
career and be remembered I'm really glad
that I didn't take that role as tough of
a job as that was to to not accept it
and not do it I'm in a much better
headspace because of it and so
definitely you know
trust your gut when the role seems a
little bit too much for you yeah like
that and I think a lot of
actors even there even though you're not
being specific about what exactly it is
I think all of us can think of things
that if we saw it in an audition or as
part of a role we'd be uncomfortable
with it and sometimes people that are
kind of newer in the industry or just
starting out in their career they're so
afraid to turn things down yes they're
afraid that they they're gonna let
people down and I'm glad that you talked
about that your agent had your back
because actors so if you need to know
that the agents most most of them if
they are good agents most of them
they're gonna be on your side with a
very much with everything and if you
tell them you're uncomfortable with
something they're not gonna push you
towards it they're gonna say alright
you're totally cool right you turn this
down we'll get the next one yeah and the
director even reached out after he said
hey I heard what happened I just want to
let you know like I completely
understand and that that really meant a
lot to me because you know internally
like I felt like I let everybody down
and the reason I brought up the long
hair was because after that role I cut
it I I had it and it was gonna be for
that role and then it was like you know
I don't like this identity that that
either the industry or I have presented
for myself and so it was like you know
what I can control my look at least with
my hair and get rid of it and then that
opened the door for new opportunities
and new roles and you know it was one of
those things that I don't have to
continually go back and and relive what
happened because this should have been
something that should have been taken in
the book taken care of in the breakdown
you know please do not audition for the
role if you're not okay with this and it
wasn't there and you know I there's no
ill will it's just it's unfortunate and
I'm glad that it happened to me as
opposed to happening to somebody else
and they were taken advantage by it
where I was able to get out of that
situation and someone who was more
comfortable with it took the role I'm
sure he did a great job and like all
good my my career will go on you don't
have to have every single role yeah I'm
we've all done if I book this role then
I book this role then oh I've got I'm
gonna fly here and then fly it and then
nothing happens or you know maybe just
one of them or and it's like you gotta
live your life you know and so so I'm
gonna be okay in there yeah that's great
great lessons learned and it also just
ties right back to your when I'm talking
about the patient's part of it right and
that you don't have to accept everything
that comes your way you can be patient
about about this one thing and the
career in itself all right man this was
awesome it was a great conversation I
thought we were gonna talk for like 20
minutes but this was well beyond that
there's a lot of great stuff both on the
health and fitness side and also on the
ocking stuff so I'm sure we'll do this
again so until next time signing off and
stay safe they high decay we will
hopefully see you soon hopefully see you
in person yeah all right all right
better good to see you man well chat
later all right thank you so much for
watching all the way to the end I want
to thank Tyler one more time for joining
me remember to check out his youtube
channel in his website linked down in
the description below one more thing
before I sign off if you're interested
in learning about my audition
preparation process that's helped me
book over fifty movies and television
shows then I've created a free audit
sheet that you can download from the
acting Career Center website alright
that's it for today until next time keep
practicing keep learning and I hope to
see you on set one day
