hey guys my name is charlie i own a real
estate brokerage here in california and
in this video we are going over eight
crucial things you need to know before
getting your real estate license in my
opinion getting a real estate license is
one of the best licenses to get but
before starting your real estate journey
there are these things you need to know
that will help improve your chances of
seeing success so without further ado
let's get started the first thing you
need to know is that in real estate your
income is uncapped what i mean by this
is that your pay is infinitely scalable
whenever your pay is based on commission
and it's not based on the number of
hours you necessarily work this is one
yes you could not make any money if you
don't close any deals but also you can
close a lot of deals and make a ton of
money so based on my research the median
agent salary in 2020 was nine thousand
seven hundred dollars don't that scare
you there are tons and tons of agents
making well over one million dollars
five million dollars and even more than
that and if you look at some of the top
states you can see that the average
incomes reached into the 60s 70s and
even hundreds of thousands of dollars in
new york so yeah those are just averages
and medians you know if you perform much
better than these agents then you can
absolutely make a ton of money for
example you have agents like ryan
sirhants you have agents from selling
sunset and there are even so many other
agents out there that you've never heard
of that make well over 1 million dollars
per year after working as a solo agent
for a while you can start building up a
team of buyers agents listing agents
transaction coordinators and other
people to help you this is when you can
really scale to seven figures and beyond
so the point is this uncapped income is
very enticing but it takes time and
consistent focus in order to get there
the next thing you have to know is that
marketing is everything the best case
scenario for any type of real estate
agent is a ton of eyeballs on them and
being the first agent that people think
of when they think real estate agent
there are tons of different strategies
you can use to market yourself and
you'll need to identify the ones that
suit you the best it's really this whole
concept of pay to play where you need to
pay with money or your time in order to
get clients and this is really the most
important thing for any real estate
agent to realize you could be the best
real estate agent in the world you can
know every single thing there is about
real estate but if no one knows that you
are a real estate agent then sadly no
one is going to come to you and you
won't have any clients and while you
might get the occasional client from
people that you know we really really
want that steady stream of clients year
round so as far as marketing channels
goes social media is the really big one
that i think a lot of you guys need to
focus on in my opinion every successful
real estate agent in about 10 years is
going to have some type of social media
account so this could be youtube tick
tock instagram anything that can really
get their name out there if you want to
really succeed you want to spend money
and you want to spend time building up
your social media channels another thing
you can do to get clients is to buy
leads from somewhere like zillow or your
brokerage there are a lot of companies
out there that can provide you for x
amount of leads for let's say a monthly
fixed price or if you don't want to do
that you can spend your own time cold
calling door knocking passing out flyers
you know anything to get your name out
there to people around your area yeah
the main point for this one is you need
to know that marketing is so important
and you need to focus the majority of
your time and energy on it number three
is you want to have a small nest egg
before you get into real estate it takes
on average about 6 to 12 months for an
agent to sell their first home and this
is especially true in competitive
markets like los angeles or new york if
you're in a more remote area you might
sell your first house quicker than that
but i still do think that it's very
important to go into this field with the
expectation that it might take some time
for you to get your first client if
you're broke right now and if you don't
have any type of nest egg i don't
recommend jumping into real estate as
your only thing especially if you are in
a competitive market you'll want to save
enough so that you don't need to rely on
real estate commissions for let's say
the first six to 12 months or better
than that you can have some type of
passive income or some type of side
hustle that you're doing on the side to
cover your bills in case you don't close
anything that quickly but yeah i'm sure
a lot of you guys have heard the stat
that as much as 80 percent of new agents
will fail within the first two years and
why is that one is because they run out
of money and two they don't realize many
of the things that we were talking about
in this video before getting started so
yeah definitely build that nest egg
before committing to becoming a real
estate agent the next really important
thing you need to know is that you need
to set metrics as a real estate agent no
one is really looking over shoulder all
the time and when you are your own boss
it becomes pretty dangerous because no
one is really holding you accountable
and that's why you really need
accountability and that's why you really
need to track the things that will
result in performance what i recommend
is not focusing on tracking your deals
or the amount of money that you're
making instead you want to track the
things and actions that actually lead to
those deals and like i mentioned earlier
marketing is king so go into real estate
knowing that a majority of your time is
not going to be spent you know learning
about real estate in fact it's going to
be spent just marketing yourself so
getting back on setting your metrics you
might want to say i'm going to create x
pieces of content by this day or i'm
going to make 50 calls each day or door
knock you know 20 doors or send out x
amount of mailers each week track these
things and not the money or the number
of deals because when you track the
actions that actually drive the number
of deals and money you make that's when
you can really see success so yeah
really get into this mindset before you
get your license as it will definitely
help you see success much faster the
next thing you have to know is that the
process of getting your real estate
license can take a lot longer than you
think it really depends on your state
because each state is going to have
different requirements but yeah
basically you're taking a class with x
amount of hours of instruction so here
in california that's going to be 135
hours you'll pass the final exam for
your course then you will apply to take
your state exam you'll wait for that to
go through you'll get scheduled a date
for your test and then you'll have to go
and pass that state exam in california
for example it's going to take you at
least 90 days minimum to go through this
whole process now a lot of people get
caught up on the education they spend a
lot of time going through the course and
unfortunately a lot people get burnt out
what i recommend for most people is just
take your education through an online
course for example i took my salesperson
and broker education requirements
through real estate express they're
probably the most affordable real estate
education out there and i think for most
states it's going to cost under a
hundred dollars so if you do want to
check them out i will put a link to them
down below but yeah like i was saying a
lot of people they'll read all the
information they'll take really detailed
notes and that just eats up so much time
and i want to tell you guys that i don't
think that is very necessary my personal
strategy to pass the salesperson brokers
as well as my loan license exams was to
skim through the online education read
the really important parts look at the
key bolded words and then spending the
majority of my time actually taking
these practice exams where they have
tons and tons of these questions that
mimic the real estate exam questions by
doing this you are looking at all the
different ways that they can possibly
test you on this material and you'll see
that a lot of the questions on the
practice test go hand in hand with the
questions that you eventually see on the
real estate test i'm not saying to
absolutely not focus on anything in the
course that would not be good but
instead of spending all your effort on
that and then just spending maybe a few
hours on practice exam questions i'd say
flip that around and really prioritize
those practice exam questions that is
absolutely the best way that you can
spend your time studying for the test
the next really important thing and this
could completely change your whole real
estate career is to get a mentor
especially in something like real estate
guidance is so important as well as your
network all the stuff you learn in your
online course it's going to be important
but it's really not going to help you
much at all in getting through a real
estate transaction i can almost
guarantee that you'll become successful
in real estate if you one get a mentor
and two work with them for one to two
years even if they take like a 50 cuts i
guarantee you that that is completely
worth it as long as they are a really
good broker but having a mentor like
this this is basically a cheat code a
lot of people are scared because they
take quite a big cut from you for
however long you're working with them
but really this is absolutely going to
pay off later the alternative to finding
a mentor like that since i know it can
be quite hard to find someone like that
is to work on a team make sure you have
a really great team leader that is sort
of like your mentor doing this will
really ensure that you have the
knowledge to get through real estate
transactions as well as starting to
build up your client list as well as the
connections you have in the industry
there are many great brokerages out
there for new agents for example keller
williams and exp i know that they have
great new sales agent training programs
so those brokerages could be really
great if you are starting out yeah if
you can and if you really want to do
real estate full time try and find that
really experienced mentor who can guide
you through everything allowing you to
sort of piggyback on their success and
see success a lot quicker the next thing
that you should know is that you can do
real estate part-time but this is a
pretty controversial thing in my opinion
you can do real estate part-time but
many other people think you cannot the
reason why i think you can is because i
personally do real estate part-time i
got my real estate license to help buy
my first place as well as to help
friends and family buy places as well
and it's a license i've had since 2017
it's been a great part-time side hustle
and that side hustle eventually evolved
into me getting my broker's license and
opening up my own brokerage now while
you can do real estate part time i will
say that if you really want to be super
successful in real estate you want to be
like the top five percent of real estate
agents you will 100 need to do it
full-time without doing it full-time and
making real estate your entire life you
will never become the best realtor out
there for your clients you won't have as
many contacts experience good
recommendations or knowledge about the
area as someone that devotes their
entire life to real estate so yeah know
what your intent is and just know that i
think you can do it part-time but if you
want to be the best you should do it
full-time now if you're not even sure if
you want to become like an agent but you
are more sure that you want to become a
real estate investor i still do think
that your real estate license is a great
license to have because you're going to
learn a lot of things that are going to
help you with real estate investing
later on and lastly you have to know
that there are a million different ways
to succeed in real estate you do not
need to do what everyone else is doing
in order to succeed in this business for
example we have cold calling right
people have been doing this for many
many years to see success in real estate
you do not need to cold call to generate
leads like i mentioned earlier there's
this whole social media thing and that
can really skill your lead generation
way beyond you calling a bunch of random
people asking for business so yeah if
you're like me and you don't like cold
calling just know that there are so many
other ways to do lead generation we are
so lucky to have the internet and one
thing you can do is think what types of
value can i give out to the internet
that will actually result in me getting
eyeballs on me and therefore leading to
clients coming my way for example many
real estate agents could have a youtube
channel making content about their local
market if people search this and they
find you then well you are going to be
the first agent that they think about
especially if you've given them so much
value then it just doesn't make sense
for them to use anyone else besides you
and yeah i want you guys to know that
you should not be afraid of any type of
marketing there are a million different
ways to reach the top in real estate but
you should know that you can't reach the
top doing things that everyone else is
doing otherwise everyone would be at the
top and that's just impossible so
personally i think this is great for the
younger new realtors out there
especially when you consider the fact
that the average agent in the united
states is 54 years old we do have an
advantage because we can focus more on
tech on social media and we can really
target this new generation of home
buyers that will probably relate to us
better than the older people out there
and even if you're not young you will
still be able to take advantage of
social media because these tactics work
on the older generations as well
everyone is affected by the internet so
yeah those are the eight things you
absolutely have to know before getting a
real estate license like i mentioned
earlier if you are looking for a place
to get your real estate license
definitely check out real estate express
and i'll link them down below i got all
my real estate licenses through them and
they're definitely the most affordable
and easy way to get your license thank
you so much for watching and if you
enjoyed the video make sure to hit that
like button and also subscribe to my
channel to see more videos just like
this i make a ton of content about
personal finance entrepreneurship and
investing thank you so much and i'll see
you in the next video peace
