many years ago when I was still
relatively new to acting I was going on
one of my first movie auditions and I
remember when I got there there was
somebody checking people in at the front
desk and she asked me who I was
auditioning for and I told her the
character and then she asked me do you
have the sides and I said what my my
sizes I had never heard the term sides
before and I thought for some reason she
was asking me for my sizes and so I said
my sizes and she said no the audition
size and she held up the pages of the
script and I said oh yes I do have those
and I sat down and I was super
embarrassed and the thing is we never
want to feel that way as actors right we
never want to feel like there's an
industry term that we don't know because
it makes us feel like amateurs that
makes us feel like unprofessional actors
so that's why I decided to make this
video today is I put together 20 of the
most common terms that you will hear at
an audition
how many of them do you know let's find
what's up my fellow actors welcome to
the acting career center here to help
you learn the skills you need to break
into the film and television industry my
name is Kurt you thank you so much for
joining me here today if this is your
first time here make sure to subscribe
to this channel to get more videos on
acting auditioning and career advice
every single week now today's video is
about audition terminology specifically
20 of the most common terms that you
will hear at an audition you definitely
want to know all of these terms before
you go to your next audition so that you
look like a professional actor and not
an amateur so let's get right to the 20
terms the first term is your headshot
and resume this one's pretty
straightforward but I do want to make a
couple things clear one your headshot
should be a professional headshot taken
by a professional headshot photographer
your name should be printed somewhere in
the front and then on the back should be
your resume this can be printed on the
back stapled to the back or attached
with double-sided tape however you put
it on there your resume should be on the
back of your headshot now one more thing
I want to point out is that your
headshot should be printed on 8 by 10
photo paper this is different from
normal printer paper which is eight and
a half by 11 you can see that I wouldn't
I put them side-by-side the headshot
paper is smaller it's 8 by 10 this is
industry standard so make sure your
headshot is printed on 8 by 10 to paper
and make sure it's photo paper this is
thicker paper it's not flimsy like
normal computer paper either the next
term is a breakdown now a breakdown can
refer to either a project breakdown or a
character breakdown a project breakdown
is a bunch of information associated
with a project for casting purposes so
usually if that includes the name of the
project the writer the director the
producers where the project is shooting
when the project is shooting the rate of
pay of the project the union status all
this type of information is included in
a project freight down now I'll
character breakdown is more or less a
description of the character this is the
type of information that you will get
along with your audition so the name of
the character the age range the
ethnicity and a short description of the
character that's included in the story
next we have sides now we just talked
about sides in the intro to this video a
lot of
when they look at something like this
that will call this an audition script
and that's not the correct term the
correct industry term is audition sides
the term side simply refers to pages of
a script sections of a full script so a
full script for a television show or a
movie can be 30 pages 50 pages 100 pages
whatever it is sides refers to pages
that have been taken out of the full
script for either audition purposes or
shooting on set so for instance if
somebody at an audition says here are
the sides for Sarah they're saying here
are the pages of the script associated
with Sarah's character for audition
purposes now you will also hear the term
sides onset so anytime you go on set for
a movie or television show often at the
beginning of the day they'll hand you
the sides for the day the sides for the
day are simply the pages of the script
that they will be shooting on set that
day the next term is copy now copy is
typically used in the commercial world
the commercial world doesn't use the
term sides copy refers to the lines that
are said in a commercial so if someone
says here is the copy for your character
those are the lines that your character
says in the commercial the next term is
a storyboard a storyboard is simply an
artist's rendition of the frames for
particular scenes of a project so you
will typically see a lot of storyboards
for your commercial auditions not really
for television shows or movies that
doesn't mean that movies and television
shows don't use storyboards but they're
typically used more for the crew actors
don't really get to see them but for
commercials actors see a lot of
storyboards especially during our
auditions you will get usually get the
commercial copy as well as a storyboard
whenever you get an audition for a
commercial Union status can refer to
either a project or a performer so a
project is either a union project or a
non-union project or the performer is
either a union member or a non-union
member a cold-read is a type of audition
where you are not given the sides or the
copy beforehand so let's say you go to
an audition and you don't have the
characters lines beforehand you go in
and they give you the lines right there
on the spot and they give you a little
bit of time to prepare and then you do
that audition right
you didn't have the night before or two
days prior to prepare that audition
before going in now cold reads are not
very common in the industry in the last
ten years in my career I've done maybe
ten total coal degrees so like maybe
once a year but here's a situation where
it typically happens so let's say I had
an audition and I did get the sites
beforehand and I had a day or two to
prepare for that audition then I go in
and I read for that character after I
finished my audition the casting
director might say you know what I
actually would like to have you read for
this other character as well so they
would give me the sides then and there
and then give me a little bit of time to
prepare and then I would do that
audition right there on the spot that
would be a typical cold-read situation
the slate is the part of your audition
where you look directly into the camera
lens and you say your name and your
height a slate is used both in the
commercial world and in the film and
television world it is not part of your
scene but it is part of your audition
now sometimes they will ask you to say
more information like the name of your
agent or the city that you live in but I
would say 80% of the time they simply
ask you to say your name in your height
directly into the camera lens the next
term is off-book off-book simply refers
to whether or not you have your lines
memorized so if someone asks you are you
off-book they're asking you do you have
your lines memorized and an audition if
they tell you you need to be off-book
for this particular audition they're
saying you need to have all of your
lines memorized for that audition a mark
is a specific spot on the floor that
they want you to stand it's used in
auditions and it's used on set there
will be an actual mark on the floor
using tape that's either in a form of an
X or a T so when you go into an audition
if someone tells you hey can you please
stand on your mark just look on the
floor and look for that X or the T and
that's exactly where they want you to
stand a reader is the person who is
saying the opposite lines of a scene
during your audition they are basically
your scene partner for your audition the
reader is typically standing right next
to the camera out of frame and you are
going to be running that scene with them
now a reader can be just the casting
director or sometimes the casting
director is sitting on the desk
a separate assistant who is your reader
for the scene framing refers to how much
of you the camera sees through its lens
so it could be a tight shot it could be
shoulders up
it could be chest up it could be waist
up it could be a wider full body shot
but that's how much of you the camera
actually sees through its lens this is
something that's really important to
know as actors because if you're in an
audition and they tell you that your
framing is shoulders up that means it's
a really tight shot and you should know
that you don't have a lot of room to
move around because you could easily
move out of frame hey if you're getting
value out of this video do me a favor
and give it a like alright moving on the
next term is take a take simply refers
to one record and stop of the camera I'm
sure you've heard this term before
referring to movies when they say take 1
take 2 take 3 it's the same thing at
audition so they might tell you at an
audition if we're gonna do two takes of
this scene that means you're just gonna
be performing that scene twice blocking
refers to how an actor physically moves
through a space during a scene typically
for a movie and television show
auditions there will be no blocking
because those auditions are filmed so
tight that you can really just stand in
one spot and do the scene that way but
commercial auditions is a different
story because they will often want to
see all of the actions involved in the
commercial so they might say here's the
blocking for the scene on what they're
telling you is these are the actions and
this is the movement that they want you
to do for your audition when they tell
you that a lot of times there will be
multiple marks on the ground they might
have a beginning mark and an end mark
and what you're gonna do in those
situations is you're gonna start at one
mark and then you're gonna do all of
your actions and then finally end up at
the end of the scene at your end mark
back to one simply means that we're
gonna start over we're gonna go back to
the beginning so if you have those two
marks back to one means go back to your
starting mark and we're gonna start that
scene over again sometimes they will
refer to your two marks as your one and
your two you're beginning mark is your
one and your two is your end mark so if
they say hey can I see you on your one
that means go stand on your beginning
mark or though say hey can we walk over
to your two that means go stand over on
your second mark the next term is I
lines I lines simply refers to where
your eyes should be looking during your
audition typically your eyes are going
to be looking at your reader you're
seeing partner but
there is something that happens during
the scene that will require another
eyeline so for example let's say there
is an explosion that happens during your
scene where your eyes look for that
explosion is your eyeline for that so
the casting director might say hey let's
have your eyeline be here for the
explosion all they're telling you is
look in that direction for the explosion
cheating to the camera kind of goes hand
in hand with eye lines cheating that the
camera simply means to angle your face
and your body so that the camera sees
more of you let's use that explosion
example one more time what if during the
scene you've reacted to the explosion
like this well now our face is
completely profile to the camera and the
casting director will probably say hey
can you react to the explosion but cheat
to the camera a little bit more
they simply mean to turn your body and
angle your face in your body so that the
camera sees more of your reaction a self
tape is a type of audition where the
performer records it on their own and
then uploads it to casting this is
different from a typical audition
situation where we go in person and
audition for the casting director
now self tapes are becoming much more
common these days I typically take 80%
of my film and TV auditions are on tape
so if you're interested in learning
about how I self tape my auditions I've
created a list of self taping tools on
my website you'll find that list down in
the description below the next term is
conflicts conflicts can refer to two
different things
product conflicts and availability
conflicts product conflicts are used in
the commercial world a typical example
of a product conflict is that if you
already did a commercial for Burger King
that is currently on the air then you
cannot audition for a commercial for
McDonald's because those are competing
brands and that is a product conflict
availability conflicts refer to the
performer and whether or not they are
available during the shoot dates for the
project so let's say a project shoots
between April 1st and May 1st the
producers might ask that performer hey
do you have any conflicts during this
shoot window and let's say you are a
rockstar actor and you already booked
the commercial somewhere during that
time frame then you may say hey I
actually have a conflict during these
two days but I am available for the rest
of the shoot a callback is a
audition it's the next round of
auditions now not every audition will
have a callback sometimes a character
will be booked off of the initial
audition but others will have a callback
and some will have multiple callbacks
now anytime you get a callback it's a
good thing because it means you have
moved on to the next round and you are
that much closer to booking all right
those were my top 20 terms that you will
hear at auditions let me know down in
the comments if you have any follow-up
questions or if there are any audition
terms that you have heard that I didn't
cover in this video if you like this
content give it a thumbs up and remember
to subscribe to this channel if you
haven't already also if you're
interested in learning about my audition
preparation process that has helped me
book over 50 movies and television shows
then I've created a free audit cheat
sheet that you can download by going to
that link right there alright until next
time keep practicing keep learning and I
hope to see you on set one day
