do you want to become an actor of course
you do why else would you be watching
this video well in a few seconds I'm
gonna be going over six steps that you
can take to get started as an actor in
whatever city you live in right now even
if you have no experience at all stay
tuned hey guys it's Kurt from
small-market actor calm now way back in
2008 I walked into my very first acting
class in Cleveland Ohio since Cleveland
isn't exactly Los Angeles when it comes
to acting opportunities I was extremely
skeptical on whether or not it was even
possible to become a working actor in my
hometown fast forward to 2013 and I was
actually able to quit my day job and
become a full-time actor in Ohio okay if
you're watching this video you're
probably wondering the same thing I was
back when I first started is there any
way that you can break into acting in
the city you live in right now even if
that city isn't a major acting market
like Los Angeles or New York well guess
what even without knowing your exact
city I can tell you right now that the
answer probably is yes
you see even small markets like my
hometown of Cleveland have opportunities
available to actors you just have to
know where to find them
so here are six steps that you can take
to get started acting in your city right
away ready step number one is to do some
research and start networking this step
should be fairly easy as long as you use
a handy tool I like to call the internet
a great place to start is to search for
any Facebook groups for actors and
filmmakers in your area once you join
one of these groups keep an eye out for
social gatherings or networking events
the objective here is to meet working
actors in your area and just to start a
conversation ask them some questions
about the types of jobs they're booking
or auditions that they've had you want
to get a feel for the acting landscape
in your region it's also a good idea to
ask for recommendations for acting
classes which brings up step number two
take a class if you're just getting
started it's absolutely a sense
to take a class learn your craft I can't
stress enough how important this is
becoming a professional actor requires
hard work and dedication and it starts
with making a commitment to learning a
lot of people want to skip acting
classes altogether and go straight to a
talent agency to get representation but
that's not how it works
talent agents aren't going to sign
people off the street with no experience
and no training so get your education on
and even if you do have some experience
in theater from high school or even
college there are many other types of
acting classes that you could benefit
from on-camera classes improv classes
commercial classes scene study classes
audition classes stunt classes stage
combat classes the Meisner technique the
Strasburg method
Stanislavski Stella Adler Chekhov the
list goes on and on so there's always
something new to learn an always room
for improvement so ask around for some
recommendations or visit the acting
school directory on small market after
comm you can find the link in the
description below this video step number
three learn the business now one of the
biggest reasons why many actors don't
succeed has nothing to do with their
acting ability it's because they don't
make the effort to learn the business of
acting let's face it we aren't studying
acting just to satisfy our curiosity
we're studying acting because we want to
make money doing it there's no business
like show business right well there's a
reason they call it show business and
not show fun or show play the
entertainment industry is a
multi-billion dollar machine and the
people involved in it are in it to make
money so by understanding the way the
business works and how you as the actor
fits into it you increase your chances
of getting a piece of that multi-billion
dollar pie now one very important part
about the business is the audition I say
all the time that acting and auditioning
are two completely different skills just
because you're a good actor doesn't mean
you're gonna get work so how do you get
work as an actor you have to audition
for it the audition is like the actors
job interview so practice auditioning as
much as you can
it'll be one of the best things you can
do for your career
now speaking of auditioning once you
learn how to do it well you're gonna
have to go on some actual auditions to
apply what you've learned where do you
go to find these auditions especially if
you don't live in LA or in New York well
that's another important part about the
business side of acting a talent agent
can certainly help with getting you
auditions and we'll talk about talent
agents in a second but there are also
ways for you to find auditions and
submit yourself for acting jobs without
an agent and one of the most important
ones is a website called actors access
you can create a free profile on actors
access and start finding and submitting
yourself for acting opportunities all
over the country this is why I said
earlier that you can break into the
acting industry no matter where you live
even though I live in Ohio I've been
able to submit myself and get auditions
in New York City and you can do the same
so learn how to audition learn how to
find auditions and learn everything else
there is to know about the business side
of acting because that's how you're
gonna turn acting from your hobby to
your career step 4
get professional headshots now I can't
talk about the business of acting
without mentioning headshots the actors
business card the two main points I want
to emphasize here are not to rush to get
headshots done and not to settle for the
cheapest photographer when you're first
getting started it's important to be
patient there's no reason to immediately
get headshots and start submitting
yourself for auditions and talent
agencies take a class and put all your
focus on learning first after a while
you can ask your teacher or other
students for recommendations for a
headshot photographer not any
photographer headshot photographer don't
ask your friend to do it don't go to
Sears to get it done
if you want to be taken seriously by
casting directors and talent agents you
need to go to someone who specializes in
taking headshots for actors a headshot
photographer is someone with industry
knowledge who understands how a photo
best represents you to other people in
the industry so make sure you find
someone who knows what they're doing
they may cost a bit more than the guy
who takes family portraits at Sears but
your investment will be worth it in the
long run step number five find
representation finding representation
from a talent agency is another huge
part of the business side of acting this
is where the people looking for a
shortcut to fame try to go first but
just like with headshots don't rush to
get signed by a talent agency talent
agencies are looking for actors with
training who know what they're doing so
it's important not to go to a talent
agency until you're ready but if you
have taken classes and you've got
professional headshots and you've done
your research on the business then you
may be ready to consider representation
now getting represented by an agency
will be a major step in your career your
agent will be able to get you
opportunities and auditions that you
would never have been able to find on
your own that's because talent agencies
are constantly networking with casting
directors production companies and
corporate clients that are looking to
book actors for all kinds of different
jobs the actor agent relationship is the
most important business relationship in
any actors career but don't forget to do
your research before signing with an
agency ask your teacher or other
students in your class for their input
because there are great agencies out
there but there are also some really
really bad ones which leads us to the
final step step number six beware of
scams unfortunately in a multi-billion
dollar industry like this one there are
plenty of scammers out there trying to
take your money by offering you false
promises and fake promotions these
scumbags are preying on the hopes and
dreams of newbie actors who haven't done
their research and don't know how to
spot a phony the rule of thumb here is
that if it sounds too good to be true
yeah it probably is so be wary of anyone
that promises that they can make you a
star in exchange for some money and
nobody has that kind of power I've
personally met people that were scammed
out of thousands of dollars by these
so-called talent agencies that promised
fame and fortune so Ron run run away if
an agency charges you a large upfront
fee before signing you to a contract
never ever pay an agent an upfront fee
for representation legitimate talent
make money when you make money meaning
that they take a commission off of your
paycheck after they book you a job if
you aren't booking jobs from them then
you should not be paying them a dime for
their services period so be sure to do
your homework and make sure any agency
you sign with is a reputable law ok guys
if you like this video please give it a
thumbs up and subscribe to this channel
oh and feel free to share with anyone
else that you think might find this
information useful and leave me a
comment below - I'd love to hear about
how you're getting started as an actor
in whatever city you live in right now
